This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com



THE MADRAS IRRIGATION 
AND
CANAL COMPANY
(LIMITED).

"To satisfy the desolate and waste ground, and to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth."óJOB xxxviii. 27.

-------------------------------------------------------INDEX.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
Prospectus .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..  iii
Extracts from Blackwood's Magazine of August,1856 .. .. .. .. .. ..  1
      "              "                     "              December, 1856 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2b
       "         "    Indian Railways." By an Old Indian Postmaster" (W. P. Andrews,Esq.) .. .. .. .. .. .. 6 
       "         "    Colonel A. Cotton's "Profits on British Capital, &c." .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. 7		
       "              A Private Letter from Rajamundry .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8
       "	    A Pamphlet By Colonel A. Cotton .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .8
       "             The "Times" Review, &c.	       .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9	
        "	    A Leader in the "Times" 	       .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..11		
       "            The "Times" Correspondent in the Deccan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..12		
       "            Report of Commissioners on Public Works in Madras .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .15		
Glossary of Indian Terms .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 117
	
                                                                   OFFICES,
34, CANNON STREET WEST, LONDON. e 30
1857


The Madras Irrigation and Canal Company
(LIMITED),
OFFICES--34, CANNON STREET WEST,
For Constructing, Maintaining and Working (under the sanction and with the support of the East India Company) Irrigation Works and Navigable Canals throughout the Presidency of Madras, including the Territories of Mysore, Hyderabad and Orissa.
INCORPORATED UNDER THE "JOINT STOCK COMPANIES ACT, 1856."
                                   ________________________

FIRST CAPITAL £1,000,000 in 50,000 SHARES of £20 each,
(With Power to increase the same).
                                   ________________________

DEPOSIT, TWO SHILLINGS per SHARE.
The Liability of each Shareholder will be strictly limited to the Amount of his
Deposit until the Company is Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament,
and then to the Amount of his Shares.
                           =======================
                                            Directors.
COLONEL PHILIP ANSTRUTHER (H.E.I.C.S.), C.B., Madras Army.
THE HON. PHILIP PLEYDELL BOUVERIE, M.P. (Messrs. Ransom,Bouverie & Co.)
BENJAMIN BURT, ESQ., (late H. E. I. C.S.), Oriental Club.
CAPTAIN DORIA, Madras Army, late Assistant-Engineer of the Godavery Irrigation Works.
LIEUT.-COLONEL GRIMES (H.E.I.C.S.), late Madras Army, Ampthill Lodge, Southampton.
COLONEL ATWELL LAKE, C.B., Aide-de-Camp to the Queen, late Engineer of the Kistnah Irrigation Works.
LIEUT.-COLONEL ONSLOW (H. E. I. C. S), late of the Commission for Governing Mysore.
LIEUT.-GENERAL SIR GEORGE POLLOCK, G.C.B., F.R.G.S., &c., &c. 
COLONEL THE HON. R. T. ROWLEY, Berkeley Square.
JAMES THOMSON, ESQ., Messrs. Line & Co., Madras. 
MAJOR-GENERAL WESTROP WATKINS (H.E.I.C.S.), Madras Army.
(With Power to add to their Number.)
Offcial Auditors 
MESSRS. QUILTER, BALL & CO.
Bankers.
MESSRS. RANSOM, BOUVERIE & CO., 1, Pall Mall East
Solicitor.
JOHN MACKRELL, Esq., 34, Cannon Street West.
Brokers

Secretary.
JOHN WESTWOOD, ESQ,

LONDON
PRINTID BY C. ROWORTH AND SONS
BELL YARD, TEMPLE BAR.

-------------------------------------------PROSPECTUS.---------------------------------------------------
"We trust to see the day when, instead of Australian Land or Gold Companies, or South American Mines, we shall see in the London Share List the Names of Indian Irrigation Companies, guaranteed, not their profits, but the peaceable management and control of their affairs by the Indian Government."óExtract from "The Times Leader" of Dec. 29, 1853.
                            *                   *                  *                *                    *                      *                                        
" But while the Government of India is doing its utmost to repair the sluggishness of former years there is no reason why private enterprise should remain idle. India is large enough for all, and there is not probably at this moment on the face of the earth a field for investment comparable with it. A tenth part of the profit actually derivable from Works of Transit and Irrigation would be ample remuneration for the employment of the Capital of an English Company."ó Extract from the "Times" Review of Colonel 4. Cotton's Pamphlet on Public Works in India.

The two great wants of India are Irrigation for the land, and means for transporting its produce. " Give the soil water, and anything will growógrain of all kinds, sugar, indigo, cotton, oil seedóall saleable and all profitable, as well to the producer, the merchant and the Government."ó" The Times" Correspondent in the Deccan.
" India is like the field after an Indian battle ; there is but one cry, ' Water! Water! ' All that is wanted is water; and this want supplied every thing else will almost follow of course, water for Irrigation and water for transit will provide for every thing else,"ó Colonel Cotton on Public Works in India.
With Irrigation and cheap means of transporting produce from the Farm to the Port, India will be able to supply, at a less price than almost any other country, nearly all the staple articles of commerce for which England is now dependent on Foreign States.
It is a fortuitous circumstance, that Irrigation Works in India
                                                    a2
----------------------------------------------( iv )-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
can generally be so constructed as to form the means of really cheap transit also, and thus provide for these two main requirements of the country.
To help supply the wants just adverted to, is the object of this Company ; and it may with truth be affirmed, that no enterprize of the present day, however lucrative and useful, will bear favourable comparison with such an undertaking, or prove so conducive to the growth of exotic and indigenous cotton and other produce necessary for the welfare and commerce of Great Britain.
The Madras Presidency contain above 165,000 square miles (more than three times the size of England and Wales), with a population of 25,000,000. The greater part of this extensive tract contains a rich soil, wanting irrigation only to make it one of the greatest producing Countries of the East.
"Give but water, and the veriest waste places of India will bloom like a garden, and the common soil will waive with double or treble harvests in the year."óBlackwood's Magazine of August, 1856.
Within portions of the Presidency of Madras extensive Irrigation Works already exist, but many of them are out of repair and to a great extent useless, and therefore irrigate less land than formerly.
Nevertheless the Government returns show, that, for a series of Fourteen Years prior to 1853, such works, taken collectively, yielded, after all deductions, a net profit upon the cost of their construction of 69 1/2 per cent.
It has lately been recorded by Members of the Council in India, Government Commissioners, Civil and Military Engineers, and others of the highest character and intelligence, and the fact is well known to all persons acquainted with the country, that a vast number of new works are imperatively required to be constructed in the Madras Presidency, for at present only one-fifth part of that territory is cultivated, solely from the want of proper and necessary irrigation, only one-twentieth of the area being now supplied. Thus, millions of acres of good land are lying waste solely from the want of irrigation to render

-------------------------------------------------(v)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
them eminently productive and profitable ; whilst immense volumes of water (and more than sufficient for the purposes required) flow by neglected to the sea.
The above authorities clearly show that the required new works will produce a higher rate of profit upon the capital necessary for their construction than the above mentioned average, and that in the Madras Presidency these results can with certainty be obtained, as irrigation is there peculiarly important, profitable and easy of extension.
In other parts of India the revenue is fixed and invariable, either in perpetuity or for a term of years, and neither any improvement in the resources of an estate or village, nor any extension of cultivation, entitles the Government to demand the smallest addition of revenue ; but throughout by far the greater part of the Madras Presidency the Ryotwar Field settlement prevails, under which every acre of land is liable directly to be assessed for irrigation supplied to it, and the gain thereby produced to the Ryot (i. e. the cultivator) is so great that he gladly avails himself of the water supplied, and cheerfully pays the assessment.
In Northern India irrigation is valuable only during the two or three dry months preceding the rains, whilst in the Madras Presidency, from the greater heat and aridity of the climate, and the longer duration of the dry season, produce can scarcely be raised at all without constant artificial watering.
In justice to the East India Company, it must be stated that, although the Government of Madras and the Court of Directors have been earnestly desirous to execute many very important Irrigation Works, they have been prevented doing so by the multifarious calls upon the revenue, and the immense amount of other work already entrusted to their officers.
The proposed Works are of easy construction ; and, considering their extent and the benefits derived, very inexpensive. They also render (in most cases) a very rapid return for the money expended ; for instance, the Works connected with the Godavery River, now nearly completed, will irrigate 1,200,000 acres of land, and afford 1,000 miles of canal navigation at a

------------------------------------------------( vi )----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
cost of 300,000l. only, and during the first year of their progress a clear profit of 33l. per cent. was received, and the gain steadily increases.
In most cases Irrigation Works can, at a very trifling additional expense (about 150l. per mile), be constructed in the shape of Canals, navigable by steam boats, and thus another vitally important want of the country, viz. the means of transit, may be to a great extent supplied.
It is proposed that this Company shall navigate their Canals by such means as may be found most beneficial, thereby securing an additional profit of a promising character.
With reference to this part of the proposed undertaking, however, it must be borne in mind, that the gain to be derived therefrom is here contemplated as a secondary profit, only, at the same time it is not intended to interfere with the interests of any railway or navigation company already sanctioned by the East India Company. The field of operation is ample, without competition of that character. In fact, this Company will operate as a feeder of no mean importance to all such existing companies.
The Directors are in communication with Colonel Arthur Cotton (the great authority upon Works of Irrigation in India, who is now in Madras), as to the most eligible work to be first constructed.
Negotiations have been commenced with the Court of Directors and the Government, for securing to this Company the necessary powers for constructing and maintaining, throughout the Presidency of Madras, a comprehensive system of Irrigation Works and Canals, and for working and navigating the latter in the usual way, commencing with such undertaking as shall be agreed upon with the Court of Directors.
Application will also be made to the East India Company for a guarantee of a minimum rate of interest, and the remainder of revenue to be derived from the works, or an adequate portion thereof; and until this guarantee has been obtained, no further payment will be required from the shareholders than the deposit of two shillings per share.

------------------------------------------------------(vii)-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
So much only of the proposed Capital of £1,000,000 as will be sufficient to carry out the particular undertakings which shall form the first portion of the intended System of Works will be first called up, the remainder will not be required until after those works are finished ; all future increase of such Capital, which may be required to execute the other portions, will be allotted pro rata amongst the then Shareholders, exclusive of such reserve as may be considered necessary to be made for India.
Every confidence is felt that this project will be received with favour by the governing powers, and that it will be liberally dealt with ; but should it not be so, the deposit will be returned to each shareholder, after deducting the proper proportion of the preliminary expenses, which will be but trifling.
                                                                                                     ================
Applications for Shares may be sent to the Brokers, Messrs., or to the Company's Offices, No. 34, Cannon Street West, where forms can be had ; but no application will be considered, unless a Deposit of Two Shillings on each Share applied for is previously made to Messrs. RANSOM, BOUVERIE & CO., Bankers of the Company. The Deposit will be returned if the applica-tion is not acceded to.óResidents in the country may remit the amount of their Deposit by Post Office Order, payable at the Chief Office, London, to the Secretary, who will immediately forward a receipt.

-------------------------------------------------------------(1)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXTRACTS from Official Reports and Documents, &c., showing the vast importance of Works of Irrigation and Communication by Navigable Canals in the Presidency of Madras and the Mysore Territories, &c., as a safe and highly remunerative Investment for British Capital.
                                                                              =============================
Extracts from an Article in Blackwood's Magazine of August,1866,headed " India under Lord Dalhousie."

BUT of all the works of public improvement which can be applied to an Indian province, works of irrigation are the happiest in their effects upon the physical condition of the people. The roads for water often transcend in value those for camels and caravans. Water is the prime necessity of Eastern life. In our northern climes water is only too abundant, and we shrink before the ever recurrent mists and rain clouds which beset our skies. As a general rule, our farmers dread the rain and implore the sun ; and the greatest improvement in our agriculture has been the invention of a system of draining, by which our sluggish soils may be freed from their excessive moisture. The reverse of all this prevails in the East. There, there is ever sun enough, and a cry for rain is the most frequent prayer of the ryots ; while the grand desideratum of Indian cultivation is the formation of wells, tanks, and irrigating canals, to drench the soil into exuberant fertility. Give but water, and the veriest waste places of India will bloom like a garden, and the common soil will wave with double or treble harvests in the year. It is no wonder, then, that among the public works by which Lord Dalhousie has reclaimed and developed the resources of the Punjab, we should find an important place assigned to canals and irrigation. "If the Punjab," wrote the Lahore Board (Nov. 29, 1850), " is to be made to pay its expenses; if we can hope to keep up efficient military and civil establishments, while taxing the people less than they have been taxed by previous rulers (and unless we can do so we assuredly cannot expect to win their goodwill); if we wish to feed the thousands of human beings whom the change of rule must necessarily throw out of employment, we cannot more readily do so than by cutting new canals, and improving the beds of the old ones."
Lord Dalhousie, so early as December,1849, had obtained the assent of the Court of Directors to such works, and at a subsequent period we
b

--------------------------------------------------------(2)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
find him thus urging a vigorous prosecution of them : "I have personally visited the several districts of the Manjha, as well as the southern portion of the Baree Doab near Mooltan, and the lower portion of the Sindh Saugur Doab, and of the TransIndus Province. Everywhere I found evidence of the wonderful effect produced by irrigation, wherever the means could be obtained; everywhere I found lands of vast extent, fertile properties now lying comparatively waste, but wanting only water to convert them into plains of the richest cultivation ; and everywhere I found among the people the keenest anxiety to be supplied with that by which alone they could be enabled to turn their labour to good account. It is impossible to exaggerate the political importance of holding out to the people of this [Baree] Doab an early prospect of the formation of canals throughout its length and breadth ; whilst the statements which have recently been, and which are now, submitted to the Court, appear to afford satisfactory proof that the revenue of the new province will fairly warrant this large expenditure, and that the undertaking itself will be richly profitable to the treasury of the State."
We have not space to describe the native canals which water the thirsty soil of the Derajat, where the skill of our engineers has been directed to remedy the unsuccessful management of the people ; or the famous canals of Mooltan, commenced by the Pathan Governors of the district, and afterwards repaired and improved by the great Sawun Mall, whose wise administration entitles him to the praise alike
Christian and Hindoo. But we must say a word concerning the great Baree Doab Canals, which are only second in gigantic proportions to the great Canal of the Ganges.
Hardly had the Punjab been annexed, when the sanction of the Governor General was given to the construction of a large canal, with numerous branches, to be fed by the waters of the River Ravee, and to be applied to the irrigation of the Manjha (the chief home of the Seikh race), and of the rest of the Baree Doab. We have already described the scene of sterility which overspreads the central parts of all the Doabs ; but amidst these scenes of desolation the stranger is astonished to observe that wherever a hamlet or homestead is to be seen, it is sure to be surrounded by patches of good cultivation. Barren as it seems, the soil is rich, and repays irrigation,óeven though the wells there must be sunk deep before water is procurable. Still more striking and constantly recurring tokens show that, despite appearances, this region was once not inferior to the most favoured districts. Everywhere in these wastes are to be seen ruined cities, villages, temples, tanks, wells, and water courses ! Times of anarchy and violence, doubtless, had caused these tanks and water courses to be neglected ; and with their decay the land grew barren, and the cities were forsaken. Yet give but water again, and the olden prosperity will in time revive, and population grow dense in these now solitary places. To achieve this beneficent and wise project in the region lying between the Ravee Riyer on one side, and the Sutlej and its tributary the Beas on the other, was the purpose of the Baree Doab Canal, the execution of which work has been most successfully carried on, and which is

---------------------------------------------------------------( 2a )-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
reckoned " equal, if not superior, to the finest irrigation canals in Europe. " The main line, with its branches, will extend over about 470 miles. Its stream will be at its head 120 feet in breadth, and 5 1/2 in depth, diminishing at its lower end to 16 feet in breadth and 2 1/2 in depth. Even during the dry season of the year, the canal head will roll down a volume of water amounting to not less than 3,000 cubic feet in each second; and a slight modification of the main channel, which is provided for, will admit an additional 1,000 cubic feet, procurable during nine months of the year. The canal, likewise, is so constructed as to serve the purposes of navigation as well as irrigation ; and river-vessels may traverse its whole length, from its lower extremity, not far from Mooltan, up past Umritsur, to the most northern limit of the Punjab, at the foot of the Himalayas.
Wood, and especially forest timber, is much wanted in the Punjab; and the Governor General providently resolved to make the construction of this canal subservient also to the growth of forest and timber trees, by forming plantations along its whole course. In accordance with his directions, an extra space of from 300 to 400 feet on either side of the canal and its branches has thus been set apart for avenues; so that, of the 19,000 acres occupied by the line of the canal,12,000 are devoted to groves. By his directions, also, arrangements have been made for the preservation and economizing of the tracts of forest which already exist,ófor the planting of fuel copses near great cantonments, and of groves around all public buildings, as well as at intervals along the main lines of road. These provident measures, assisted by the prevalence of brushwood in the central plains, and of prolific forests in the hilly regions which overhang the Punjab on the north, are likely in future to secure a sufficient supply of 
firewood for the inhabitants, as well as excellent beams for architectural purposes.
When the magnitude, variety and difficulty of the public improvements undertaken in the Punjab are considered,óthe civil and military buildings, the public works, roads, bridges and viaducts, the salt mines, and, lastly, the canals,óit is believed that in few parts of India, even those longest under our sway, has so much been done within a short time for the physical improvement of the country. During the first five years, not less than £935,000 (two-thirds of a year's revenue) were disbursed for the material improvement of the province ; of which sum one-half was spent on roads, one quarter on canals, and the remaining quarter chiefly on civil buildings and works for public accommodation, and a fraction to military buildings for the defence of the north-west frontier. A portion of those public works are in the highest degree remunerative,óthe irrigation revenue from the Baree Doab Canal, for example, being likely to repay the whole expenses of this colossal work in ten years hence, after which it will be a clear source of profit to the government of at least ten lacs (£100,000) a year.

*                   *                             *                          *                            *                                      *

----------------------------------------------------------------(2b)----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Extracts from an Article in Blackwood's Magazine of December, 1856, headed " Our Indian Empire."
In ancient Rome, the triumphal processions that ever and anon passed along the Via Sacra, "purpling the street," served vividly to impress the minds even of the unthinking masses with the far reaching extent and grandeur of the empire that owned the sway of the Legions. Stalwart Angli and blue eyed Germans,óPersians and Parthians from their orient hills and sands,óa queen from lonely Palmyra, Jews torn from Jerusalem, dusky slaves from the Nile,ópaintings and godlike statues from Greece, alternating with troops of wild beasts of strange aspect or startling bulk from the African deserts,ópassed in turn before the proud eye of the Roman multitude. Living symbols and brilliant samples of the various provinces and conquests were transported bodily and exhibited solemnly in the Imperial City. We have a homelier way of doing things now. Europe, as she gets older, is losing her regard for pageantry. Far in the depths of Scythia, indeed óin a region then so waste that Roman Legionary never pressed its soilówe have
just witnessed a sudden outburst of imperial pageantries, with the fame of whose magnificence Europe is still ringing, and which find a parallel only in the pages of Roman history, or in the sculptured processions of the ancient Empires of the Orient. It needs symbol and ceremony, and a mighty dazzle at Moscow, to pierce the wastes of Muscovite darkness, and make known to the dull unlettered mujik the might and resources of the Czar. But the British people know and read, and their government speaks to them simply through blue books and the press. It is in this unostentatious way that, to the nation at large, is made known the condition of the various parts of our far spread empire. From Canada and snowy Oregon,ófrom Jamaica and the tropical Islands of the Gulf,ófrom New Zealand and Australia,ófrom India and our settlements in the Pacific,óofficial reports are ever pouring into the little island of the North Atlantic which has bred the lordly race that owns all these possessions. These reports of our prefects are our true triumphal processions. And if they elicit less fervid emotions and lo-paeans than saluted the purple triumphs of the Roman chiefs, they at least tell their tale more clearly and to a wider audience, and give better assurance that the national rejoicing is not bestowed upon a mask, but upon a reality.
The proud phlegm natural to the Briton, and the familiarity with success taught him by the marvellous past of his nation, conspire to make him the most impassible of men in presence of triumphs, though sufficiently impatient of failure or reverse. Silence with him is approbation. He is often most satisfied when he says nothing. As long as he is satisfied, he exhibits an indifference that must be provoking to those who strive for his regard. And if the statesmanly exploits be not done within the parent isle of his raceóthat goodly nook wherein he has garnered up wealth and power untold, and every acre, right or custom in which is sacred in his eyes,óbut in one of our colonies or

---------------------------------------------------------------( 2c )-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
empires beyond the seas, it is hopeless to expect from John Bull the slightest mark of enthusiasm. Once a year, and generally in the last days of the session, there is gone through in the House of Commons a piece of work which seems to be regarded by every one as a bore. A gentleman rises on the Ministerial benches, and, undismayed by the general secession of the House, delivers a three hours' speech to the thirty Members or so who still keep their places. At almost any time during the delivery of this oration the proceedings could be abruptly terminated by a " count-out ;" but as it is not a question of home politics, the Minister is allowed to bring his lengthy address to a close. It is the Indian Budget speech ; and the House has been listening to a report on the state and prospects of an empire one half the size of Europe, and comprising an eighth part of the entire human race. But with the exception of some Manchester politician, who thinks that India grows too little cotton, or some lawyer, who holds a brief from a deposed Rajah, no one rises to comment or discuss,óthe House turns with alacrity to other business, and the speech is left to be circulated and criticised by the press.
Our Indian Empire constitutes so vast a subject of inquiry that our national Representatives may be excused from plunging into its abysses, so long as matters go on smoothly. And that India does, on the whole, progress favourably, is our honest conviction, as well as, we conceive, a fair inference from the seeming apathy of our legislators. In so vast a fabric it is easy to pick out a defective stone here or there, or even a buttress that does not look seemly by itself ; but the same things may be found at home, where we have been planning and building and taking down and rebuilding incessantly for generations, under much more favourable circumstances than have surrounded the builders of our foreign empire in the East. It is not, however, with the design of defending the East India Company's rule, or of discussing moot points, that we address ourselves to our present subject, but simply with the purpose of passing in review the leading features of our Indian empire, as a theme worthy of national attention, 
and as a groundwork for any criticisms of detail which may be rendered necessary by the future.
                                        *                  *                  *                   *                   *
When the British first began the work of administration in their Indian territories, the most novel and perplexing feature that presented itself to them was the relation of the government and people to the soil. The great mass of the population are entirely dependent for support upon the land. The means of existence are easily procurable in India: the warmth of the climate, the fertility of the soil, and the simple wants of the people, combine to make living a much easier thing there than with us. There are there no poor rates, by which with us the prosperous are made to support the destitute ; but the land, to the cultivation of which the masses have from time immemorial devoted themselves, is (speaking generally) regarded as a vast raw material for the manufacture of which into the means of support every facility is given. The common law or usage of India has from
A

--------------------------------------------------------------(2d)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the most ancient times established a species of tenant right, in virtue of which no peasant can be dispossessed of his ground as long as he pays the rentóand even this rent is no arbitrary thing, but is regulated by what is called the "Pergunnah rates," or rate usual in the district. Thus land is not such an absolute property there as with us. In truth, landed property in India confers a right rather to the rent than to the soil itself; and any sale of land, while transferring the rent, cannot dispossess the cultivators. As long as the cultivators pay the rent, there can be no " evictions," neither can the proprietor interfere to defraud the tenant of the benefit of the improvements he has effected. This is the general rule, and is what should be universally; unfortunately in some districts, especially Lower Bengal, our ignorance of Indian usages led us to establish an order of things by which the rights of the people have been permitted to be infringed to a most regrettable extent. So much for the relation of the cultivators to the soil. The relation of the proprietors to the land opens to us fresh novelties. There are different kinds of proprietorship. First, there is the Zemindaree tenure, or large property system, where a large extent of ground is owned (or rather its rents drawn) by a single individual,óor by two or three joint owners, who make no division of the estate, but simply draw fractional portions of the rent; and these Zemindars hold their properties on condition of paying a certain amount of land revenue to the government. Secondly, there is the Ryotwaree system, by which the cultivator is likewise the proprietor; or rather, under which there is no middleman or quasi proprietor between the peasant and the government, and the former pays rent in the form of land tax directly to the latter. Thirdly, there is the Putteedaree or village community system,óthe most interesting of all, but which requires a word of explanation. Although the people of India are almost entirely devoted to agricultural and (but in a much lesser degree) to pastoral pursuits, there is not a rural population in our sense of the word. Their habitations are not scattered over the face of the country, but are always massed together in towns and villages; and to each village a certain district is attached. This circumjacent district is owned by and allotted amongst the members of the village community,ónot now equally, indeed; for under every form of society, save those supposed to exist in Utopia, it is found that perpetual equality is impossible, and that land, like everything else, tends to accumulate in the hands of the able and industrious, and to melt away from the lazy or stupid. Moreover, in many of these village communities, there exists a species of oligarchy, composed of one or more leading families, evidently the descendants of conquerors or dominant interlopers in ancient times, who are now the quasi proprietors, and draw the rents of the village lands. In these Putteedaree districts the owners, though themselves cultivators, seldom cultivate the whole of their respective portions; the remainder, parcelled into allotments, is let to the "common herd" of ryots resident in the village,óand partly also to ryots who belong to other villages, and who (unlike the resident ryots) are mere tenants at will, because having no

--------------------------------------------------------------(3)----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"settlement" in that community. Each cultivator bears his share in the government assessment of the village district, which is collected by the potail or head of the community, with whom alone the government deals,óthe community being ultimately liable for the default of any of its members.
Such are the three modes of land settlement in India. The Ryotwaree system prevails in Madras and Bombay, the Zemindaree in Bengal Proper, and the Putteedaree in the north-western provinces. Each has its peculiar defects and advantages. The defect of the Ryotwaree system is, that when bad seasons or other calamities visit the lands, then remission, and not only remission, but actual assistance from the government, becomes necessary to keep the ryot from ruin, and to enable him to labour effectively for the future : all which requires an amount of minute superintendence, by upright and zealous men, such as it is impossible for any government to afford. Otherwise the Ryotwaree system would be the most perfect of any.*
                           *                            *                            *                              *
To complete our sketch of the present condition of the Indian Empire, it remains to note what has been done for the material improvement of the country. It is somewhat curious that efforts for the moral and social elevation of the people took a definite shape before the development of the material resources of the country was equally visibly attended to. Indeed, although the mere extension of British rule in India brought with it a great increase to the wellbeing of the people, it was not till Lord Dalhousie assumed the reins of government that the execution of great public works for improving the country fairly commenced. Foremost among these we must mention the Canals for the joint purpose of irrigation and navigation; and chief among these stands the great Ganges Canal,óa work without its parallel in the world. Major Cautley (now knighted for his distinguished services) was the engineer of this great work ; and under his superintendence, within eight years the whole main lines of the canal, applicable to
the double purpose of irrigation and navigation, were designed, executed and opened. Extending over 525 miles in length, measuring in its greatest depth ten feet, and in its extreme breadth 170 feet, the main irrigation of the Ganges Canal is a work which stands unequalled in its class and character among the efforts of civilized nations. Its length is five fold greater than that of all the main lines of Lombardy united, and more than twice the length of the aggregate irrigation lines of Lombardy and Egypt together. As a single work of navigation for purposes of commerce, the Ganges has no competitor throughout the world, except the Imperial Canal of China. No single canal in Europe has attained to half the magnitude of this Indian work. It nearly equals the aggregate length of the four greatest canals in France. It greatly exceeds all the first class canals of Holland put together ; and it is greater by nearly one-third than

Footnote: (* The introduction of a comprehensive system of irrigation works will effectually remove this objection.)
A2

----------------------------------------------------------------(4)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the greatest navigation canal in the United States of America. This refers to the main line alone. Taking into account the branches, the canal will extend to about 900 miles in length ; and the area, which may be irrigated by its waters, will not be less than a million and a half of acres. But none can estimate in their full extent the blessings which its fertilizing influence will confer upon millions, whom it has now placed beyond the reach of those periodical calamities of season which from time to time, as in 1837, have brought upon the plains of Hindostan the wide-spread desolation of famine and death. The canal leaves the bed of the Ganges at Hurdwar, close to the foot of the Himalayas. It was opened by Lord Dalhousie in person on the 8th of April, 1854. And well worthy was the scene of the picturesque lines with which the Anglo-Indian muse hailed the birth of this new river offspring of the mighty Himalayas :ó
" O ancient peaks
Cold-glancing in the early sun!
This crowd in every murmur speaks
Your glory. Now is done
Your lonely age ; your true life is begun,ó
Barren no more!
And years to come shall hear your praise
Far other than the fame of demon gods,
Holding their grim abodes
On Meru's top through fabled secular days.
Years hence some aged man will sayó
Of those who stand today
By the glad baptism of your youngest born,ó
When, from his fruit grove, far around
He eyes the green and affluent ground:ó
' I stood among them on that shining morn,
I saw the Ruler of the Land
Let loose the waters with an easy hand ;
The River, vainly idolized of yore,
Now first her servants blessed ;
The white topp'd mountains never bore
Us benefit before,
Till taught by those wise strangers from the West!' "*
Of the great Baree Doab Canal, and smaller works of irrigation in the Punjab, we have already spoken, as well as of the 600 miles of canals in the district of Mooltan, which have recently been put in more efficient order than they ever were, even in the palmy days of Sawun Mull. Lower down the valley of the Indus, in Scinde, irrigation canals have likewise been constructed, serving to reclaim portions of the sandy wastes to steady fertility. Nor have these beneficent works been neglected in the Madras Presidency, though there they assume another form. Vast dams or anicuts across the rivers there take the place of the canals of the northern provinces,óthe mass of water thus obtained from the rivers being led over the soil in a thousand

Footnote: ( * Ex Eremo. Posms chiefly written in India. By H. G. Keene)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(5)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

sand minor channels. A magnificent work of this kind is the great anicut across the river Godavery, designed and executed by Colonel Cotton, whereby the means of irrigation has been given to large tracts of country, formerly exposed to constant risk of sterility and famine from want of water. The rivers Kistnah, Pennair, Cavery and Venaar are likewise the scene of great works of this kind, which will utilize their streams, and convert their waters, now flowing idly to the sea, into a magnificent agent of good to the surrounding population.
So much for the works of irrigation,óof all others the most important for developing the resources of torrid India, and augmenting the well-being of its inhabitants.
		*		*		*		*                      *		*                                        
Lord Dalhousie's administration was distinguished, among other things, by the introduction into our Indian empire of three great engines of social improvement, which the sagacity and science of recent times have given to the nations of the Westónamely, Railways, Uniform Postage, and the Electric Telegraph. Four great trunk-lines of railway have been approved, or are in course of construction; 1st, A line from Calcutta, running north-westwards through the Bengal Presidency to Lahore, in the heart of the Punjab ; 2nd, A line shooting off south-westwards from some point in the above line to Bombay and connecting Bombay with Calcutta; 3rd, A line uniting Bombay and Madras; 4th, A line from Madras to the Malabar coast. These lines, when completed, will knit together in close union the various centre-points or foci of our vast Indian empire. In our view they are to be regarded as imperial, rather than as industrial undertakings : that is to say, although certain to benefit greatly the industrial resources of the
country, they are calculated to enhance in a still greater degree the power and stability of the British rule,óan object which must ever rank second to none. They are not to be judged, therefore, as mere commercial undertakings,óalthough unquestionably they will greatly economise our military power, by enabling troops to pass from point to point with amazing rapidity, as well as afford outlets for the surplus produce of the various provinces. As imperial trunk-lines of communication, we cordially and unhesitatingly approve of the railways now in progress in India ; nevertheless we think the Indian Government will commit an error if it seek to develop the railway system much further for many years to come ; for be it remembered, although railroads are most advantageous in the midst of a dense population accustomed to habits of incessant locomotion, and in a country where the goods' traffic consists of articles of high value compared to their bulk, they are of much less use where the mass of the people
(as in India) are rural cultivators of very stationary habits, and the bulky low-priced produce of whose fields cannot bear the high rates of railway carriage. Water-communication is eight times cheaper than the minimum charge by railway, and the speed of railways is of no consequence in the transport of imperishable goods, such as cotton, rice, and grain. Useful as railways are, it is a maxim of common sense that their construction be delayed until more pressing wants and profitable

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(6)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
works are supplied. And such wants India has in abundance : for instance, works of irrigation, of which there can hardly be too many,óthe making of ordinary roads, in regions where not a wheel-track is at present to be seen, and where the cost of transport is enormous,óand lastly, the clearing of rivers for that cheapest of all means of transit, water-carriage. The cost of a single railway in India would suffice to execute a score of such other more needed and more profitable works. Therefore, while we approve of the resolution of the Court of Directors to proceed with the trunk-lines connecting the various Presidencies, we venture to think that, with the exception of these, the influence and resources of the Indian Government ought, for some time to come, to be devoted to the promotion of other works of greater industrial value.
		*		*		*		*                                            
The public works in progress in India tend to produce an increase of revenue to the State, by increasing the fertility of the country, or opening roads for its produce; and the irrigation works are so remunerative that they pay at the rate of from twenty up to seventy per cent. on their outlayóthus in a few years becoming a direct source of gain to the State, as well as, from the moment of the first opening of their sluices, the greatest of blessings to the native population. To stop such works would be the height of folly. *   *   *   *
Here we conclude this sketch of our great Indian Empire. Having occupied so much space with the exposition of the leading features of our subject, it is impossible to advert in any way to the probable future of the people or their British rulers. Now that railways are beginning to span the land, awaking, tossing together and amalgamating the different tribes and peoples of India,ónow that commerce and wealth are slowly beginning to accumulate in native hands, and that natives in ever-increasing numbers are taking part in the administration of the country,óthe future, the goal towards which all this is tending, must more and more press itself upon the consideration of thoughtful beholders. Suffice it to say, however, that India promises to continue for many generations subject to the ascendancy of the British race, andr,that it behoves us to fulfil the concomitant duty of benefiting the people over whom we rule. A cheerful and noble though arduous task; and we doubt not that many of the brightest names on the bead-roll of England will continue to be contributed by the lordly bands of her sons who go forth to uphold her strange and mighty Empire in the East.

					------------------------------
Extracts from "Indian Railways by an Old Indian Postmaster." (W. P. Andrews, Esq.)
The introduction of railroads may be easily made to subserve agricultural purposes, by the formation of tanks where ground is required for embankments, and by the conveyance of water along the different lines; thus irrigation, the sine qua non of farming in the East, might

------------------------------------------------------------------------(7)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
be greatly extended, and those frequently-recurring famines in particular districts, arising from the want of water, would be either averted or much alleviated.
Besides annihilating the hopes of the farmer, the deprivation or diminution in the supply of this necessary of life in the scorching climate of India is the frequent and immediate cause of dreadful misery and mortality.
Some years ago, when the writer was in Upper India, a famine prevailed in the provinces of Bundelcund. The inhabitants, men, women and children, fled in hundreds from their homes. Many of these hapless creatures arrived daily at the great Military Station of Cawnporeósome to die of hunger as soon as they saw foodóothers in the first effort to swallow the coveted morsel. A camel-shed was given by the authorities for their reception ; a subscription was set on foot by "The Good Samaritan," the superintending surgeon of the division, and with his own hand this kind-hearted man fed two or three hundred of these poor famishing creatures every morning. By this visitation many children were left without a single relative ; several were seized by the rich natives, and made slaves of; but the military chaplain rescued about sixty orphan girls, whom he sheltered under his roof. These were afterwards educated, and formed an interesting and impressive group, all arrayed in pure white on the day they received the sacramet of Baptism. They were afterwards to become teachers for the conversion of the secluded inmates of the Zenana.
                                                                         ------------------------------
Extract from "Profits on British Capital, by Colonel A.Cotton."

Perhaps the most pleasing indication of the effects of these works (irrigation) upon the people is the following remarkable result :óLast year (1855), Mr. Taylor, the revenue officer in charge of Rajahmundry, wrote officially to report that twenty-four villages in one talook proposed to defray the cost of maintaining vernacular schools "by a fixed annual addition to their land tax," which would form a permanent allowance like those to the village officers, and would be applied only for educational purposes. Although the above villages were specially mentioned, there were others also ready to come forward. Mr. Taylor concludes by saying,ó" The most thriving communities will naturally be foremost in the march of improvement, and, as might be expected, the inhabitants of those villages which have already benefited by the anicut (across the Godavery) are the first to come forward to contribute towards the expenses of their children's education. The spread of sound vernacular instruction throughout the villages may eventually be not the least among the indirect effects of the works of irrigation."

 					------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------(8)-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Extracts from a Letter from Rajahmundry, dated 7th April,1856.
As regards this district I can give you good accounts. Everybody and every thing is prospering ; there is no poverty, and I never hear any complaints of excessive taxes, of having to sell cattle to pay, of having lost all their crops, or that they have been ill-treated by the authorities, or been obliged to cultivate against their will ; on the contrary, the difficulty in Naggarum is to decide who is to be allowed to have land and not who must. And in Mogultoor the amibdar says he need not send people hunting the ryots to get the rentóthey bring it to him themselves. I never by any chance see any of those half-starved wretches with scarcely any clothes; everybody can get plenty of work everywhere; the people find it more profitable often, and always easier, to work with the ryots, who both pay and treat them well, or they go as daily coolies. Building is going on in many villages, but I can speak only of those in the sub-collectorate. The people are well clothed; cattle owners are on the increase. The people are decidedly much more comfortable, and they no longer fear or dislike or have their suspicions of Europeans. They seem to think that what they say on either secular or religious subjects is decidedly to be received with respect and some consideration; and in some few instances men are to be found who will take up at once any new idea suggested to them by Europeans. They are of opinion that the government and the executive are friendly inclined to them, and they acknowledge without any hesitation that they have been greatly benefited by the public works. Trade is very brisk at Narsupoor, and boats are being built in every direction ; in the neighbourhood of Narsupoor there must be twelve or fifteen building, and there are numbers on the stocks along the channels.
I counted seventeen boats the other day in the first two miles above the Gunnarum Aqueduct (quite away from any town) taking in or waiting for cargo. Sugar canes, plantains and cocoa-nut trees are spreading over the district,óslowly, perhaps, but surely.
                                                            --------------------------------------
Extracts from a Pamphlet by Colonel A. Cotton, late Chief Engineer of Madras.
In India the common price paid by the landowners for water is about 1l. per 5,000 cubic yards, when raised from wells or rivers by animal power, and at this cost millions of acres are watered every year, proving that it is a profitable rate ; by the Godavery Irrigation Works the water will be brought upon the land at a cost to the government of about 1l. per 300,000 cubic yards. Is it surprising that a large profit is obtained from capital so employed? And so in fact it is; it can easily be shown that the total profits divided between the government and the landowners, on capital so expended, is from 150 to 200 per cent. in the Madras presidency. And this is where the water is used for irrigation only ; the navigation of the canals affords a further large profit on the same water.
		*		*		*		*                                          
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------(9)----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Besides this great point, that India ought to be provided with a vast extent of irrigation and very cheap transit for the great mass of goods and passengersóbesides this, some of the points urged in the book referred to in the review here reprinted are these :ó
That money judiciously expended in India on public works will yield enormous returns.
That nothing but extensive irrigation in every district can preserve the country from those awful famines which, to our shame, have so often desolated the country while under our rule, nor can anything but water on the main lines afford so cheap a means of transit, or the power of conveying such vast masses of goods as the country demands.
That there is nothing whatever to prevent the execution of a system of public works, such as the country requires, at once, in every district in India.
That public works, and they alone, can possibly enable the country to pay such revenue as will restore the finances, and provide funds for effective establishments, civil and military, for education and for every thing else that the country requires.
That, if thus improved, India can supply England, in the greatest abundance, with raw materials, and that when the people become generally sellers of their own produce, they will also of necessity become buyers of English manufactures.
That the most needful works might be executed in every district in five or six years, and thus the whole country relieved from its main evils in a very short time, as the district of Rajahmundry has already been.
That England has it now in her power, under God, to bestow upon India such blessings as no one country ever was honoured to bestow upon another; her wealth, her science, her energy, brought fairly to bear upon such an immense, quiet, industrious population, already reduced to peace and order, would, with God's blessing, produce such results as have never yet been seen in the world.
                                                                                      -------------------------------------
Extracts from the " Times" Review of Colonel A. Cotton's Work on Public Works in India.
This is a book which, once taken up, it is difficult to put down, and the perusal of which produces an impression not easily shaken off. Let any one, however little versed or interested in Indian affairs, devote an hour or two to Colonel Cotton's 300 pages, and we are sure he will rise from the perusal with an interest in India and its improvement which never can be wholly extinguished. The writer is an enthusiast, and it is difficult for the most indifferent person to read or speak of his work without catching some degree of his enthusiasm ; but Colonel Cotton is something much better than an enthusiast; the precision of his ideas, the clearness of his thoughts and the strength of his convictions raise his style, but the book would scarcely have been less valuable had this been entirely wanting. Colonel Cotton's Public Works in India produces all the startling effect of a great and unlooked-for

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(10)-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
discovery. It is the solution of what has always been considered a most difficult and intricate problem. It sheds a flood of light over the dark future of our Indian possessions, and while scarcely yielding in cogency of argument to mathematical demonstration, arrives at results at once scientific and practicalóat once of general truth and of immediate usefulness. A little more care in the arrangement, a little more sedulous avoidance of repetition, would have removed the only blemishes in point of style which the work exhibits, but its brevity may excuse the first of these faults, and the extreme importance of the subject palliate the second. Such as it is, we earnestly commend it to the study not only of young and old India, of presidents and directors, but of every English gentleman who wishes to understand how the resources of modern science may be brought to bear on the happiness of individuals and communities, and how those principles which every one is anxious to apply to his own estate may be used for the regeneration of a mighty empire.
		*		*		*		*                                            
Little as has been done in India, enough has been effected to show what it is in our power to do, if the Governors of India only had the will. The following are instances :ó
"The saving in the cost of transit on the western road from Madras is fully cent. per cent. on the capital expended, and the average return on all the new irrigation works in the Madras Presidency for the last fourteen years is 70 per cent. per annum. Taking the whole of the years since their execution, the present annual profit is at least cent. per cent., and that without counting the improvement of private property. The district of Tanjore is taken care of, irrigated, protected from floods, drained, and provided with common roads, and the revenue steadily rises till from 30 it becomes 50 lacs a year; the population increases from seven or eight lacs to fifteen lacs, and the land reaches a saleable value of at least 4,000,000l. sterling, equal to 24,000,000l. in England. In the district of Guntoor all such works are utterly neglected, and in one year a famine occurs that sweeps away 250,000 people out of 500,000, and causes a loss of revenue in the next ten or twelve years of eighty lacs, while not an acre of land is saleable. The sole cause that has made the difference between these two districts is the different degree of attention given to public works. The Paumbun Pass, between Ceylon and the Peninsula, has been deepened from five to ten-and-a-half feet, and it has reduced the freight between Tanjore and Ceylon six rupees a ton, which, on the 70,000 tons of grain alone, is more than four lacs, while it has cost two and a half lacs. It has also led to a complete change of the system of navigation, substituting good keeled vessels that can work to windward for the old native tub that could only sail before the
wind. . . . . . . . The Northern Canal, which probably cost about 30,000 rupees, yields a revenue of 30,000 rupees, besides the saving to the community. A set of works for the improvement of Rajahmundry are well advanced. They consist of a weir across the Godavery, with navigable and irrigating channels, &c. They have been in hand seven years ; 20 lacs have been spent up to this time, including

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(11)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
repairs, and the revenue has increased steadily from an average of 20 lacs to 25, giving a total increase of 30 lacs against 20 expended, and this besides an enormous gain to the people ; so that this vast system of works, which, when completed, will have cost 25 lacs, has been carried on not only without demanding a rupee from the general treasury, but with a clear surplus of 10 lacs of revenue, and this besides the vast benefits to near a million of people, and promising to yield within a few years a permanent increase of revenue of 10 or 20 lacs a year, for not a quarter of the land is yet fully watered."
What makes these statements more remarkable is, that these extraordinary successes are checkered by no failures. Wherever a wofk has been carefully planned and intrusted to officers of competent skill it has uniformly succeeded, when it has been allowed to be brought to completion.
		*		*		*		*
But while the Government of India is thus doing its utmost to repair the sluggishness of former years, there is no reason why private enterprise should remain idle. India is large enough for all, and there is not probably at this moment on the face of the earth a field for investment comparable with it. A tenth part of the profit actually derivable from works of transit and irrigation would be ample remuneration for the employment of the capital of an English Company. Let but the East India Company give up that unwise jealousy of sister associations which has become a traditionary maxim of her policy, and, instead of keeping India a wilderness that she may keep it to herself, throw it open to the capital and the enterprise of commercial England,ólet but the government relax the impolitic restrictions which, by the dread of an indefinite risk, virtually prohibit the formation of partnerships for the purpose of carrying out enterprises in remote and little known countries,ólet there be fixed a moderate scale of tolls, which the projectors of any public work shall be allowed to receive from those who avail themselves of it on its completion,óand by those few and simple means the barriers which have separated the wealth of England from the poverty of India will be broken down ; the ignorance, the timidity, and the distrust which have retarded this interchange of mutual benefits will be swept away ; and, while India sees in England an enlightened protector, England will recognise in India a source of wealth and strengthóof pride instead of shame, of honour instead of discredit. We went to India two centuries ago as traders ; a century since we became conquerors and tax-gatherers ; it is time that we should prove ourselves improvers and benefactors.
                                                                            ------------------------------------------------
Extract from the " Times" Leader of Dec. 29, 1853.
It is quite obvious, on the slightest consideration, that the cost of wars and conquests, so often alleged as the reason for neglecting these public works, need be no obstacle at all. There is no country which

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------(12)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
spends so much in military and naval establishments as this that we live in, nor is there any in which so much is also spent in developing all the wealth and resources of nature. Wherever there is a certainty of increased production, there is a prospective revenue which admits of being capitalized, and for the development of which capital can be obtained to any reasonable amount. Let the Indian Government only offer facilities for British enterprise,ólet it only allow British engineers to calculate the profits of irrigation, to collect the tolls and rents for the supply of water, and all the apparatus necessary for handing over a good dividend to the shareholders,óand, no doubt, there are plenty of people who, without any particular love for India or the human race, will be only too glad of 6 or 7 per cent. from India instead of 4 per cent. from railways or 3 per cent. from Consols. Such arrangements are wholly irrespective of wars, whether on the Indus or the Irrawaddy. The transaction will be between the British capitalist and the Indian cultivator, and so long as the latter gets better crops the former will get his dividend, and all will be richer. When, indeed, we are told that such and such works have been stopped or neglected because the Indian Government found it necessary to apply the funds to some war in progress, we can only say it is a very great pity that any government liable to such temptations and interruptions had the management of those works. The only parallel to such an absurdity would be the almost inconceivable case of the British Government at home having the management of the railways, and applying to the building of war steamers or to fortifications in Corfu the money that ought to have been spent in replacing the rails and locomotives, keeping up the permanent way and paying the railway porters. The obvious remedy for such an abuse would be to take the railway forthwith out of the hands of a government whose right hand proved dishonest to its left, and to consign the office to a body of administrators whose only business it should be to manage the railway, receive the proceeds, do the necessary works, and hand over the excess of profits to the shareholders. We trust to see the day when, instead of Australian land or gold companies, or South American mines, we shall see in the London Share List the names of Indian irrigation companies, guaranteed, not their profits, but the peaceable management and control of their affairs, by the Indian Government. In that way wealthy England may at last prove a blessing to the immense and most interesting population which Providence has subjected to her rule, and the poor Hindoo may at length be able to speak of England as a minister of Providence.
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------
Extracts from " The Times" Correspondent.
                                              DECCAN, Nov., 1853.*
I have recently perused some admirable letters in the " Times" by a true " Friend of India," urging the subject of irrigation upon the
Footnote: (This Letter, written in favour of irrigation in the Deccan, is equally applicable to Madras in every respect)

------------------------------------------------------------------------------(13)---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
notice of the public and of Government, and I am well assured that those letters must have made a valuable impression upon all who have read them, in England or in India. We read, and are convinced by official details and reports, that the returns from the present irrigation works are never less than 20 per cent. upon the outlay, and are as much as 70 per cent, in many instances ; and while this result adds in a wonderful degree to the revenue of the State, it operates in a more wonderful and advantageous degree upon the condition of the people. Not only are famines prevented, but local prosperity is insured, and apprehensions of drought and scarcity are for ever dispelled. The value of local products is enhanced ; valuable garden produce takes the place, to a great degree, of the lower descriptions of grain, and with the value of the produce the capital and resources of the farmers are increased. Population increases, too, with these advantages ; land rises in value, the social condition of the people is improved, and reckless habits, induced by poverty and uncertainty, are abandoned. 
Again, the revenue of the State is secured,ó
For there can be no failures under irrigation.
		*		*		*		*
Give the soil water, and anything will growógrain of all kinds, garden produce of all kinds, sugar, indigo, cotton, oilseedsóall saleable and all profitable, as well to the producer as to the merchant and the Government. Can there be any doubt of this ? I hope not now. I have drawn your attention to it continually and earnestly for the last twelve years of my correspondence with you; and perhaps my statements are too general to be believed in England,óyet they are not so, as the official returns now show you. All honour to the authors of the Madras Report, who have so fearlessly exposed the miserable policy which has restricted outlayónay, refused itóto what alone could enhance and secure the prosperity of the people, and secure, also, the revenue of the State ! The arguments and statistics of that report are as incontrovertible as they are valuable ; and we now know that Government has lost millions of revenue under supineness and neglect, while to the people the consequences have been even more disastrous. Watch the progress of improvement, social and productive, in the north-west provinces, and mark how sandy plains become rich gardens, instead of arid wastes. Mark the gain to the State, which is at least tenfold less than the gain to the people. Mark the result of impoverished districts rising in importance, exporting valuable produce, receiving settlers and enabling them to subsist in security and progressive advancement. Mark, also, the result, where tried, on an arid, hilly tract, once the abode of lawless predatory tribes, who had no cultivation on which they could exist, and so lived by plunder and rapine; they are now transformed into an industrious, peaceable, and money-seeking people, urging on their own works, not allowing a drop of water which can be saved to run to waste, and making gardens of their formerly, to them, useless valleys; they are rising in wealth, well clothed, well housed,ósettled, in fact, and well

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(14)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
to do. Are not all these the effects of irrigation, of saving the water which Providence in mercy pours out on a dry, hot land, and giving it to his creatures instead of allowing it to run to waste to the sea ? No one can deny this now ; and, had your Parliamentary inquiry been of no other use to India but to establish this fact in the breasts of the public of England and our rulers, it would have conferred a vast prospective benefit upon India.
Supply water, and what is ordinary dry crop land rises to garden produce rates, and the revenue is at least tripled. Here, then, lies the true profit of the outlay, and with it, as I have stated, are the higher considerations of increased profit to the people. Look at the subject in what light you will, it is advantageous, presently and prospectively, for an infinite progression of years, and I have therefore advocated it from the first. I would now fain see you take it up in earnest, and strive to gain some justice in this respect for this strangely neglected portion of our Indian dominions.
		*		*		*		*
But if Government will not take up the subject, or if delays are continued, is there anything to prevent private enterprise? With such profits in prospect as the Government of India is now realizing upon its works of irrigation, is there nothing to tempt your English capitalists to embark in the like speculation, thereby assisting the people while they enrich themselves ? It is strange to me that with such a field of enterprise and profit open to them, grave speculative capitalists turn their attention and devote their energies to anything but this. Any foreign loan, insecure and doubtful in operation, will tomorrow secure millions of subscriptions, while an outlay of capital in a dependency of England is looked on coldly or utterly disregarded, though showing a prospect and certainty of profit which are unparalleled in the world. Is it too much to propose the construction of irrigation works to the Government of India, leaving it open to that Government to purchase them after the expiration of a term of 
years? or to invite Government to a co-operation in their construction ? Private enterprise, with such means as England could supply, and such civil engineers as you could send, would construct works in the Deccan which would rival or surpass the noble canals of the north-west provinces or the Punjab. There are rivers and streams in plenty, lands which languish for moisture, a people hardy and industrious, a noble port, and facilities for export of all valuable produce, all ready to the hands of any company or companies which will apply capital to the purpose I detail. Nor can I believe, if Government is not in a position to embark its own capital in these ventures, that it would oppose the introduction and employment of capital from England. It would be well, then, to put the matter to the proof; and if there is any objection to the operations of such private enterprises, the argument is the stronger, that Government should take their place and employ its surplus funds on these useful and magnificently remunerative public works.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(15)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Extracts from the Report of the Commissioners appointed by the Government of India " to inquire into and report upon the System of Public Works in Madras," which Report forms part of a " Return of all Public Works in India," made by the East India Company to the House of Commons.
[Note.óThe numbers at the head of each paragraph denote the number of the paragraph in the original Report.]
SECTION.
Mode of Irrigation, &c.

Sketch of the system of irrigation
10. The foregoing is an outline of the origin and growth of  the Public Works Department of the Board of Revenue, and of the Civil Engineer's Department in the Provinces; we will now briefly detail the duties of both, and this will involve a short account of the system of irrigation.

Territorial division of this Presidency
Excluding the small district of Madras, the British territories under this Presidency are divided into 20 districts or collectorates, reckoning as one the newly-acquired principality of Kurnool ; and the aggregate extent of the whole is 138,249 square miles. Three districts to the north, viz. Ganjam, Vizagapatam, and Masulipatam, are in great part under zemindary settlement ; and the officers of government have but little to do with the internal economy of the zemindaries. The other districts, which are for the most part under Ryotwar settlement, are each distributed into a number of sub-divisions called talooks ; and each talook is under a tahsildar, who is its chief revenue officer, and the head of its police, and is also charged, under the general direction and control of the collector, with the custody of public works, other than judicial and military buildings, within his talook, and with the execution of repairs to such public works. The number of talooks in a district ranges from eight in Trichinopoly to 18 in Malabar ; the average number is 13, there being 256 talooks to 20 districts.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(16)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Its distribution for Maramut purposes.

11. These 20 collectorates are divided nominally into eight maramut divisions, but really into nine, as will be explained below. The area of each division, and the names of the collectorates included in it, are shown in the margin. The arrangement of the divisions was re-cast in 1847 ; and under the present distribution, each division, except the 1st and 3rd, contains two districts, one on the coast and one inland. The 1st division comprises five districts,of which all are on the coast except one (Gutoor), and even that touches it at one point; the third division, besides Canara and Bellary, includes Kurnool, Whee however there is at present but little work going on.

TABLE 16 ATTACHED SEPARATELY


The districts having government works of irrigation

12. Of the 20 districts, Malabar and Canara have no irrigation, for they receive the whole brunt of the south-west monsoon, which fully supplies them with water. The irrigation works of the three zemindary districts are numerous, but only a small proportion of them,viz. those in the government talooks, are under the charge of the officers of government. The greater part of the works in Guntoor and Rajahmundry were likewise under the zemindars till lately, but the whole of those in Guntoor, and a great part of those in Rajahmundry, are now under the collector, and a good deal has been done in the last few years to improve them. The remaining 12 districts are almost wholly Ryotwar, and the irrigation works in them are the property of government. The following are the principal modes of irrigation in use.

The several modes of irrigation
The drainage of the whole peninsula of India, except the narrow strip at the foot of the western ghauts, is towards the east; and the larger rivers having a considerable part of their course within the countries of the south-west monsoon, and partaking also of the north-east monsoon, are never quite dry, or only for one or two months in the year. Irrigation is obtained from these rivers either from the high floods, which occur during the height of each monsoon, or from the low freshes, which run for eight or ten months in the year.

By the low freshes of the rivers

13. The latter are thus turned to account; channels are taken off from the rivers at so low a level as to give a command of the

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(17)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
stream ; sometimes there is an anicut or dam of rough stone or masonry across the river at the head of the channel, which raises the stream at once, and so saves the cost of a proportionate length of channel in bringing the water to the surface of the ground; generally, when there is no permanent anicut, a temporary dam has to be made annually. These channels require a regulating sluice at the head, to prevent the influx of the water of the high floods; some however are without such necessary works, and are frequently breached or filled with sand by the high floods. The channels being led off at a less incline than the bed of the river, are so brought to the surface of the country, and then flow along between embankments, the water being let out to the lands by means of small sluices in the banks. Most of the irrigation from the Cauvery, the Umrauvutty, the Noel, the Tambrapoorny, the Vigay, the Pennar, and the Toombuddra, is of this description; and of this kind also will be the irrigation from the new anicuts across the Godavery and the Kistnah. Some of the most valuable works in the country are channels of this kind ; there are single channels from the Cauvery flowing a course of 30 miles, irrigating the lands of above a hundred villages, and producing an annual revenue of above a lac and a half of rupees.

By the high freshes
14. Flood-water channels are taken off from the rivers by similar means to those just spoken of, though sometimes at a somewhat greater height above the bed of the river; they are led on a high level like the others till they come to the surface of the country, and their contents are there received into extensive tanks or reservoirs, where the water is stored for use, and drawn off to the fields as required, by means of sluices in the bund or retaining bank of the tank. These channels also are not secure unless they have regulating head sluices, but many are without them. These, too, are sometimes supplied by means of an anicut, and sometimes not; the same anicut sometimes supplies channels of both kinds, and the same channels sometimes irrigates in both methods, conveying the water of the high floods to a tank, and distributing that of low freshes to the lands situated along its course. It will be obvious, from this brief description, that the operation of a flood-water channel need not interfere with the
rights of existing low fresh channels. It is only necessary that the floor of the former shall be raised sufficiently above the bed of the river; and the flood-water channel will then only take that portion of the stream which is not required by the other. There are some fine tanks supplied by means of such channels ; such are the Veeraunum tank in South Arcot, the Cauveripauk and Maumundoor tanks in North Arcot, the Cumbum tank in Cuddapah, and many others; but in general it may be affirmed, that the greater part of the flood waters of our rivers are turned to no account, and vast bodies of water flow annually to the sea, which might be made use of to fertilize
B

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(18)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
hundreds of thousands of acres now jungle or waste, to feed and maintain a vast population, and to add enormously both to the wealth of the people and to the revenue of the government.*

Irrigation tanks described
15. Some account must be given also of the " tanks " just spoken of. A tank is not an excavation, as might be inferred from the term ; it is a receptacle for water, formed by constructing an embankment or bund across a valley, and so damming up the drainage of the valley. The bund is of earth, but it is often protected in front with a facing or revetment of rough loose stone, as a defence against the action of the waves raised by the wind on the surface of the water. It is also pierced by sluices or tunnels of masonry, by which the water is drawn off as required to the fields below, and which are furnished with a simple contrivance for opening and closing them, Some of these bunds are of great size. We subjoin a memorandum, showing some particulars of four of the largest, though not absolutely the largest :ó


TABLE 18 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

		
But there are few tanks of this large size; the greater number yield under 5,000 rupees annually each, and from many the revenue is under 1,000 rupees, or even 500 rupees. Many tanks, and all those of magnitude, besides collecting the drainage of the country in their front, receive water also from rivers, by means of channels, as already described. And this is by no means confined to tanks of the largest size; hundreds of tanks yielding no more than 3,000 rupees annually have river channels. This is indeed by far the most valuable source of supply, as being more secure both from deficiency and from excess than a dependence on the rains of the locality.

Calingulahs

Tanks possessed of only this latter source of supply form,however, a very numerous class, from small tanks having bunds 500 yards long, and yielding 300 or 400 rupees revenue (many indeed are smaller than this), to such as have a bund of a mile in length, and yield 3,000 or 4,000 rupees in a good year. Many of these works might be supplied from rivers, and their value would be much increased by such improvement. It is

(Footnote:* As canals for irrigation have been found to be prejudicial to the public health in Northern India, we may here state that such result has never been met with in this Presidency.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(19)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
only necessary to add, that to obviate the danger of an excessive influx of water, most tanks are provided with an outlet called a calingulab. This work is generally of masonry in large tanks, in others often of rough stone ; it is built in the bund, near one end of it ; it is so much lower than the bund itself that any superabundant water can escape over it, and of such width or gorge as to be sufficient to carry off all such surplus water. This opening is closed towards the end of the rainy season, so as to keep the tank quite full; and this is done by means of straw and turf. To aid this operation, the crown of the calingulah is generally provided with a row of rough granite posts, about three or four feet high, as an assistance and support to the wall of straw, turf, &c. which is built up in front of them.

Statistics of irrigation works
16. In concluding this cursory view of the system of irrigation in use in this Presidency, we would give a statement of the number of works of each description, and of the various sizes, but no such classified list exist, and could only he prepared with much time and labour in the districts. In 1845 the Board of Revenue called upon the collectors and civil engineers to prepare and submit lists of the tanks and channels, &c. yielding above 500 rupees of annual value, with certain particulars. When completed the statements will form a useful record ; as yet they are extremely imperfect, the civil engineer having had no time to revise them on the spot, as is properly required by the board. The mere mention of the number of the works would give no just idea respecting them, as they vary so greatly in size and value ; but we may notice that, according to returns received by the Board of Revenue, which however cannot be relied on for accuracy, the number of tanks and channels in 14 of the chief ryotwar irrigated
districts (omitting Tanjore, from which accounts are not received, but including Kurnool), considerably exceeds 43,000 in repair, besides above 10,000 out of repair. To these belong innumerable sluices, calingulahs, anicuts, head sluices, and a variety of other works, large and small. The revenue immediately dependent on the government works of irrigation is about 135 lacs of rupees, besides fully 15 lacs more, alienated as enam ; and assuming that they now yield no more than 10 per cent. on their original cost, the amount of the capital invested in their construction may be taken at 1,500 lacs, or 15,000,000l. sterling. The amount actually expended was probably much more, for many of the old works were constructed on very unfavourable sites, and many others were formed less with a view to profit than as perpetual memorials in honour of the founder, and at a cost very disproportionate to the probable return.

The custody of the works of irrigation
17. The custody of this vast amount of property, on which so large a part of the revenue depends, and which from its very nature is peculiarly exposed to much ordinary wear and tear, besides many occasional risks, devolves primarily on the collector
B 2

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(20)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
and his tahsildars ; then on the Civil Engineer Department, whose more special province it is to give advice and assistance to the collector, in preventing danger and repairing damage ; and, lastly, on the Board of Revenue, as supreme controlling authority, over both the lower departments.
					
					SECTION VI.
The Value of Irrigation to the Revenue and to the general Wealth, and the Importance of maintaining and extending it.

Division of the subject 
233. We have next to consider the provincial branches of the Maramut department, both the civil engineers and their subordinates, and the executive agents under the collectors, and to state our opinion as to the proper numbers and the best organization of the several classes. And in order to do this clearly, it is necessary that we should take a view of the work to be done, as respects both irrigation and the means of communication.
We have already stated our opinion, that hitherto enough has not been done in either way to develope the resources of the country, or turn to account its great natural advantages; we will now state more at length the considerations which have led us to this conviction, as respects both irrigation and communication. The former of these two subjects will occupy the present section, and the latter the following one.

Present expenditure on the maintenance of irrigation works not sufficient

234. First, then, as to irrigation.The outlay on this account may be divided into two branches, viz., the maintenance and improvement of existing works, and the formation of new works.With regard to the former, it appears certain that even existing works have not been kept in really efficient repair, except in a very few districts, and that the revenue of government has fallen off in consequence, whereas by an opposite course of policy it would have been much augmented. The total revenue from irrigated land paying directly to government, and not through Zemindars, Moottadars, &c., is about 135 lacs of rupees ; and, taking the revenue or government share to be equal to two-fifths of the whole produce, and assuming one-tenth of the Ryotwar irrigated land to be enam or rent-free (a moderate computation), the value of the annual gross produce of the whole cannot be less than 375 lacs of rupees, or 3 3/4 millions sterling. The capital invested in the construction of these works may be assumed at 1,500 lacs of
rupees, or 15 millions sterling, while the annual outlay for the repair and preservation of the works amounts, on the average of the last 10 years, to only about 7,00,000 rupees. The cost of repairs, therefore, is less than one-half per cent. on the assumed original cost of the works, under two per cent. on their gross yearly proceeds, and 4 2/3 per cent. on the annual revenue derived from them to government. Now, we believe it will be acknowledged by all persons acquainted with hydraulic
----------------------------------------------------------------------------(21)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
works, that one-half per cent. on the original outlay must be too little to maintain in an efficient state works designed for the retention of water, and consisting in a great part of earthen embankments and loose stone revetments, constantly exposed to the action of water, and that frequently running, or put in motion by the winds. In England, canals and other works in which water is retained require annual repair to the amount of from three to four per cent. on their original cost, and though that includes the keeping up of towing-paths, &c., and the wear and tear of the banks from the passage of boats, yet, on the other hand, those canals are not exposed to the danger of a sudden and large influx of water like the tanks of this country, nor are their banks exposed to the action of waves raised by a gale of wind on a sheet of several square miles of water, as in the case of our more considerable tanks.

This is proved by the diminished extent of cultivation under the works.

235. Prima facie, then, there is a presumption that the sum annually expended in the maintenance of existing works is too small, and this is confirmed by a reference to the actual results. To whatever part of the country we turn, we find the vast majority of tanks, even in a good season, watering far less land than they once did, and far less than they could now irrigate if kept in proper repair ; and there is abundant evidence to show that if the existing tanks were generally restored to their original capacity or efficiency, a very large increase of cultivation and revenue would be the result.
The total extent of government land entered in the revenue accounts of Fusly 1259 as capable of irrigation in the 12 chief irrigation districts is 26,82,260 acres, bearing an assessment of 1,84,21,555 rupees. The total extent of cultivation in the same year, which was almost everywhere a good season, was only 17,87,909 acres, with an assessment of 1,12,89,352 rupees, leaving waste no less than 18,94,359 acres, with an assessment of 71,32,203 rupees.
In most districts, it appears probable that the whole extent of the ayacut was formerly under cultivation, though not all at the same time. But there are some districts, as South Arcot and Chingleput, in which some land seems to have been entered in the accounts as irrigated, because lying conveniently for irrigation. There is also a considerable extent of land which appears to have been abandoned as of bad quality, perhaps exhausted for the time by over-cropping, without sufficient manuring ; and some land in several districts, though entered as " irrigated " in the accounts, is stated to be now destitute of any apparent means of irrigation. Making allowance for these disabling causes by the deduction of even as much as one-third of the whole extent entered as irrigated, there will remain, in these 12 districts alone, 12,62,906 acres of land, with an assessment of 47,54,802 rupees, once irrigated and cultivated, and capable of being so cultivated again if the existing works only are well repaired.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(22)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The principal causes assigned by the collectors as having led to this result are, 1st. The works having fallen into disrepair; 2nd. The want of water in tanks not out of repair ; and 3rd. Too heavy assessment.

General view

240. The experience and observation of the first and second members of our commission fully bear out the accounts it has received of the deficiencies of the existing works of irrigation ; more particularly as to the disrepair of sluices and the want of calingulahs in a vast number of tanks, and the neglect of their sources of supply. Formerly, when all tank estimates were made by the tahsildars, the repair consisted generally of earth and loose stone work, and sluices and calingulahs were rarely meddled with ; and even of late years the restrictions on the execution of masonry work have operated to limit the repair and construction of these necessary works. Consequently many of the old sluices, which were generally much less substantially built than the more recent ones,* having either become leaky, or been choked up by the falling in of the roof, have so remained. This has entailed in the former case constant waste of water; and in the latter inability to use the sluice at all, so that either the land 
usually watered by it is left uncultivated, or the very dangerous remedy adverted to by Captain Smyth has been adopted, of annually cutting a passage for the water through the bund, from the top to the bottom. This expedient is resorted to by the ryots, to avoid the loss of having their lands waste ; but it has frequently caused the breaching of the tank, to the great loss of both the government and ryot, through an unexpected influx of water into the tank while the gap was open.
In short, all the works in the country, with a few exceptions, are in a state that may be called " below par ;" that is, they are below their state of full efficiency, and incapable of effecting their proper amount of irrigation. The tanks are in want of sluices, or such as they have are out of order; or they have no calingulahs, or such as they have are too small or too high, and so the stability of the tank is in danger; or the bank is low or weak, and the ryots are afraid to store a full tank ; or their channels of supply have become choked up, and no longer bring a full supply of water. And as to the irrigating channels, many of them are in the condition described by Lieutenant Rundall, from the want of regulating works at their head ; or they have become filled up by deposit, or the river has thrown up a bank in front of them and they get no water; or they have too few outlets for irrigation and the ryots cut through the bank ; or the outlets are too large, and a vast quantity of water is wasted. Such is unfortunately the description which now applies to a very large proportion of all the works of irrigation throughout

(Footnote:*This remark does not apply to the old sluices of the largest tanks, which were often most expensively and substantially constructed of cut stone.)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(23)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the country, with the partial exception of the favoured districts of Tanjore, and a part of Trichinopoly.

Results of increased expenditure in Tinnevelly

241. As practical proof that the works of the country generally have not been maintained in good condition, and to show the advantage of liberal expenditure (under efficient direction) on this subject, we will state the results obtained in some districts where of late years more attention has been paid to the works of irrigation. We will first take the case of Tinnevelly. This district has had for the last eleven years a most active civil engineer in Captain Horsley. The expenditure on Maramut works has largely increased, the works receiving repair or improvement have been carefully selected by Captain Horsley, and the work done thoroughly inspected; he has also taken some pains to improve the Maistries. A considerable part of the outlay has been included technically under the term " occasional," but few or no large works have been undertaken, or attempts made to extend irrigation to tracts not already possessing it; almost the whole of the expenditure having been incurred in maintaining or increasing the efficiency of existing works.

The revenue from irrigation

243. The marginal statement shows the average annual revenue from irrigated land in each five years of the period above specified. The average of the first period (four years) was high, in consequence of two or three very favourable seasons which followed the resumption of ryotwar settlements in Fusly 1232 ; in the next period there is a large falling off; but in each succeeding five years there is a considerable increase, and the average of the last period is nearly a lac and a half of rupees above that of the first in the series. That of the last but one (Fusly 1251 to 1255) would show much better, but for two very bad years, Fusly 1251 and 1252, included in that term. We think we shall obtain a just view of the results of the increased outlay on Maramut improvements by comparing the expenditure and the revenue from irrigated land in the first two periods of the series, with what they were in the last three periods. The aggregate income of the first 9 years was 94,55,647 rupees, or 10,50,633 rupees annually; and the aggregate Maramut expenditure of the first 10 years was 3,22,938 rupees, or 32,293 rupees annually. In the last 15 years the aggregate income was 1,77,33,875 rupees, or 11,82,258 rupees annually; and the Maramut outlay was 8,07,826 rupees, or .53,855 rupees annually. The total excess of the expenditure in these 15 years, over what it would have been on the average of the first 10 years, was 3,23,419 rupees; but the aggregate excess of revenue from irrigated land during
		
TABLE 23 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

----------------------------------------------------------------------------(24)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the last 15 years, over what it would have been at the average of the first 9, is 19,74,830 rupees.

Highly favourable result

We think we are fully justified in ascribing this large and progressing increase in the revenue to the improvement of the works of irrigation; since it is spread over far too long a term to be attributable to a series of good seasons, and we have already remarked that the last 15 years contain two decidedly bad seasons. We have then an increase of outlay to the amount of 3,23,419 rupees, producing a direct return in revenue of 19,74,830 rupees, or about six for one; besides an addition of 30 lacs to the income of the people.

One important and cheap species of improvement

244. We have already observed, that by far the greater part of the gain in Tinnevelly was obtained by the efficient repair of existing works; and a very large part of it by rendering supplies of water comparatively certain, which before were precarious. This is a most important species of improvement. There are many works which in a good year will water perhaps 300 acres, and suffice to bring the whole to maturity ; but in ordinary years will irrigate only two-thirds of that extent, and even then leave a part of the crop to fail for want of water. In such cases, if the ryots keep up stock and labour to cultivate the whole extent, they are put to a useless expense in years when the supply of water is deficient ; and if they do not, they are unable to take advantage of a good year. Add to this that ryots always lose more than the government from the failure of crops, for if it is a partial failure they get no remission of rent, and even for a total failure the whole rent is rarely remitted. Now in many such cases a small sum judiciously laid out will so improve the supply as to reduce the fluctuation to a minimum, and both secure the government revenue, and ensure to the ryot the profitable employment of his capital and labour. It must be obvious, however, that such improvements eminently require the skill and judgment of a regular engineer.

Results of expenditure in South Arcot

245. The second instance which we will give of former neglect and consequent loss of revenue and immediate improvement on the works being repaired, is that of Manargoody and Chillumbrum, the two southern talooks of the South Arcot district. Those talooks form a part of the base of the alluvial Delta of the Cauvery, lying immediately contiguous to the north bank of the Coleroon. They are thus most advantageously situated for irrigation from that river, and have for ages been so watered. The chief source of supply is the Vuddavar channel, which besides supplying direct irrigation to a considerable extent, fills the large tank called the Veeranum ; there are also other ancient channels, as the Khan Saib and the Coomaratchy, which water extensive tracts. The irrigation of these talooks had been very much neglected, so that the channels had become filled up, and the Nunjah revenue had declined from an average of about two lacs at the early part of our possession, to 1,24,000 rupees, the 

The lower Coleroon anicut
----------------------------------------------------------------------------(25)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
average of the 10 years prior to Fusly 1244. In 1834 and the following years, the Vuddavar channel was entirely repaired, and in 1886 the lower anicut was built across the Coleroon, immediately at its head. The two other channels already mentioned were brought up to the same point, and in 1839 other channels were dug to complete the irrigation of the whole tract. The Sheally talook of the Tanjore district is on the south side of the Coleroon at that point, and a part of it had been precariously watered from the river. After the anicut was built, channels were planned from it to improve and extend this irrigation, and were excavated in the course of the five years, 1837 to 1841. Appendix (R.) gives the cost and the results of all these improvements ; the following are the main particulars.

Consequent increase of revenue

246. In South Arcot the revenue rose immediately, even before the works were fully completed. In Fusly 1243, it was only 1,19,055 rupees; it gradually rose till in Fusly 1249 amounted to 2,66,332 rupees, it then declined for three years, after which it again began to rise, and in Fusly 1256 was 3,03,758 rupees ; it then declined again for three years, and in Fusly 1259 was only 1,83,488 rupees, but in Fusly 1260, the year just expired, it again rose to 2,62,631 rupees. We shall notice these fluctuations presently ; we will here only point out how great, notwithstanding, has been the profit to government from these works. The average annual collection for the 11 years preceding the improvements (viz., Fusly 1233 to Fusly 1243) was 1,22,065 rupees, while the average for the 14 years following the construction of the anicut (viz., Fuslies 1247 to 1260) is 2,37,146 rupees, being an annual gain of more than 1,15,000 rupees. The aggregate increase in the whole 14 years amounts to 16,11,134 rupees. The total cost of building the anicut, of the repair of the ancient channels, the excavation of the new channels, and of all subsequent improvements and repairs, has amounted to 3,59,015 rupees.
On the Tanjore side the average annual collections in the six years, Fuslies 1241 to 1246, being all those of which we have received accounts, amounted to 1,26,215 rupees ; while the average of the fourteen years following the construction of the anicut is 1,39,868 rupees. The annual average increase of collections has been 13,653 rupees, and the cultivation and revenue appear to be steadily advancing; the whole aggregate increase is 1,91,142 rupees. The total cost of the works on this side of the river, including all subsequent improvements and repairs, has amounted to 97,663 rupees.

 Net results.

247. Adding together the results on both sides of the river, the following are the facts. The total cost of the anicut and all the connected works, inclusive of all repairs to the end of 1850, is 4,56,678 rupees. The total aggregate excess of collections subsequently, over what they would have been in the same period, at the average obtained before the improvements, is


---------------------------------------------------------------------------(26)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18,00,298 rupees. Thus, within the short period of fourteen years there has been a return of 375 rupees for every 100 rupees expended; while the anicut and channels remain permanently valuable works. And taking their total original cost at 3,50,000 rupees, and assuming that annual repair to the amount of even as much as two per cent. on that will be required to keep them in good order, we have the cost of these annual repairs 7,000 and 17,500 rupees, being interest at the rate of five per cent, on the original outlay, total 24,500 rupees, to set off against an annual gain of 1,28,756 rupees, being a net annual gain of above one lac of rupees, clear of all expenses, obtained by an outlay of three and a half lacs. And to this large gain to the government must be added the share of the ryot, to the amount yearly of 1,93,000 rupees more; being an aggregate yearly net return of nearly three lacs of rupees, for an outlay of three and a half lacs

But the revenue has fluctuated more than the supply of water.

248. But though the increase of revenue in South Arcot, resulting from the construction of the lower anicut, has been so large, and has already paid the cost of the work several times over, yet the receipts have exhibited much fluctuation from year to year, and much more than the supply of water, which has been remarkably steady and uniform. The statement given in the margin shows the Nunjah revenue of these talooks in each year since the anicut was built, and it will be seen that there is a difference of 1,32,171 rupees between the highest and the lowest, though the supply of water has fluctuated very little. These facts are of importance, from their bearing on the question how far improved means of irrigation will be taken advantage of by the ryots when provided ; and we therefore thought it our duty to endeavour to ascertain the cause, and we obtained from the collector a full report in explanation of it; we have also received some useful information and suggestions from the civil engineer.

	TABLE 26 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

The chief or only cause of the decrease of cultivation, whenever it has occurred, seems to be the low price of grain in those years, coupled with a high assessment and an extreme want of good roads. The statement, Appendix (R.), exhibits a singular exactness of proportion between the variations in the extent of cultivation and the range of price for the year, the former varying inversely as the latter with extreme regularity.

Results of expenditure in Tanjore

252. The next case of this kind which we will notice is that of Tanjore. This province has always been better cared for in the way of irrigation than any other, both as regards the amount of outlay and the talents of the engineer officers carefully selected for this important charge. Here then, if anywhere, under

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(27)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
our administration, the effects of irrigation would long ago have reached their maximum, and it might have been supposed that no room would be found for further improvement. But such has not been the case ; and an examination of the accounts of the Maramut expenditure, and of the revenue for the last thirty years, shows that even in this favoured district, an increase of judicious and skilful outlay on the irrigation works in the latter part of that period has produced large returns.

In the 10 years from 1821 to 1830 inclusive, the Maramut expenditure in Tanjore averaged 49,200 rupees. Immediately after the latter year the expenditure increased, and within a few years the upper anicut and the works connected with it were constructed; the annual outlay has continued permanently higher than in the former period, and the yearly average of the 20 years, 1831 to 1850, is 91,523 rupees, or little less than double that of the preceding 10 years. The aggregate excess of the outlay in this 20 years, above what it would have been on the average of the preceding 10, is 8,99,370 rupees.	

Increase of Revenue

253. During the 10 Fuslies, 1231 to 1240, the revenue from irrigated land averaged 29,44,685 rupees; in the following 20 years it averaged 30,83,448 rupees (see Appendix S.). Its aggregate excess in the latter period over what it would have been at the average of the former period was 27,75,250 rupees, being a return directly into the treasury of more than three for one on the aggregate additional Maramut expenditure. Nor, indeed, does this by any means justly represent the case; for it must not be forgotten that about the period when this increased expenditure began, the revenue of Tanjore was decidedly declining from failure of water, and serious apprehensions were entertained that the sources of irrigation would fail altogether; and there is strong reason for believing that such a consummation would speedily have followed but for the works then undertaken.

Gain of the people
	
254. In this collectorate also, the ryot and the general consumer have gained by the improvements even more than usual in proportion to the gain in revenue. In the first place, the assessment in Tanjore is very much lighter than in any other district. Again, in part of Tanjore the demand on a given field varies from year to year with the selling price of grain, and this fluctuation was still larger under the Amauny system, which formerly prevailed ; and the price of grain having materially fallen during the last 20 years, a given amount of revenue indicates a larger extent of cultivation and produce now than formerly. Thus the average extent of land annually cultivated during the 10 Fuslies, 1231 to 1240, was 5,57,556 acres; during the following 20 years it was 6,36,425 acres, being a much larger proportionate increase than appears in the revenue; for whereas the average yearly revenue of the second period was 4 1/2 per cent. above that of the first, the average extent of cultivation in the	

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(28)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
later was 11 per cent. greater than in the earlier. And it is shown by returns which we have obtained from the collector, that the average produce per acre cultivated is not only larger than formerly, but less variable.*

Total gain

It is difficult to compute accurately the gain to the cultivator and the consumer from these various causes : but supposing the profit of government in revenue to be in other districts two-fifths of the whole gain, we think it may safely be assumed that in the present instance it has not been more than one-fourth of the whole. On that supposition the total gain from the outlay of the additional nine lacs of rupees has already been not less than 105 lacs, or nearly twelve-fold.

The effects of the attention always paid to the irrigation of Tanjore

255. The following striking passage takes the whole term of our possession of Tanjore, and shows what vast improvement has resulted, not less to the condition and comfort of the people than to the government revenue, from the steady attention which in that province has always been given in a greater or less degree to the works of irrigation. It is extracted from a report, dated 12th August, 1844, by Colonel (then Captain) A. T. Cotton, on the irrigation of the Rajahmundry district, when he first brought forward his plan for improving and extending the irrigation from the Godavery river :ó
" 4. Before attempting an outline of the system of works that would be required to irrigate this district, it will be well to consider what has been done in Tanjore, the cost of the works and their results. When we got possession of that district, it was in a far more advanced state than Rajahmundry is now; there was already something like a system of irrigation, and especially one main work, the grand anicut, built to prevent the Cauvery rejoining the Coleroon ; so that the district, or at least those parts of it which were irrigated, were not dependent merely upon the high freshes of the river, as is the case now in Rajahmundry, but received a supply of water almost as long as there was any in the

(Foot note: * The following small statement shows the average extent of cultivation and revenue in Tanjore for each five of the last 30 years; it will be observed that the average extent cultivated exhibits an increase in each successive five years.)
	
	TABLE 28 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

The high revenue in the first period, and in a minor degree in the third, is owing to the famine prices of Fusly 1233 and 1234, and Fusly 1242 and 1243. In 1234 Fusty, 5,40,489 acres paid 44,22,742 rupees; in 1259 Fusty, 6,76,079 acres paid only 31,66,739 rupees.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(29)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cauvery. It was, however, all in a very imperfect state, as is shown by the returns of produce, which in different years varied 50 per cent. according to the seasons ; many tracts were not irrigated at all ; many were not drained ; much water of the Augunda Cauvery flowed to waste by the Coleroon ; there were very partial embankments to the rivers, and not the trace of a passable road through the district. Soon after the assumption of the country, the grand anicut was raised ; by degrees, innumerable small works, such as sluices, &c., and new channels, were executed ; the river banks were extended and strengthened ; raised roads, with small bridges and tunnels, were constructed; the ferries were put in an efficient state, many large works for the better distribution of the water within the district, and the control of the level of the beds of the rivers, were added; and at last two new anicuts were constructed on the Coleroon to prevent the escape of any water to the sea, when it was wanted in the district. During the 40 years that these works have been constructing, about 32 lacs of rupees have been spent on the irrigation, or 80,000 rupees a year; allowing that one-half of this would have kept the works in repair, the improvements have cost 16 lacs, a most insignificant sum compared with the population of the district, its revenue and the effects produced.It amounts to about 1 1/3 rupee a head on the population ; it is equal to one-third of one year's revenue, and it is less than one year's increase of revenue, if the first years of the period are compared with the last. The average yearly revenue of the first four years of this country was 31 lacs ; the average of the four years ending in 1839, which is the last year I have an account of, is 47 1/2 lacs. Still more insignificant does the expenditure appear compared with the saleable value of the lands of the district, which, calculated from the average price obtained from about 60 estates sold in all parts of the district, was in 1839 about 260 lacs of rupees
and of this about 100 lacs had been added in a few years, so that probably the landed property of the district had been increased in value during these 40 years, 150 or 200 lacs. That the foundation of all this improvement was the attention to the irrigation is perfectly evident to all those who are acquainted with the district; and there is no other way of accounting for the fact that such improvement has taken place while every other district in the Carnatic has fallen off. Circumstanced as the eastern side of the Peninsula is with respect to the rains, it is impossible that any considerable improvement can take place, unless the irrigation is attended to; while the crops are dependent upon the local rains which are so extremely uncertain, almost the whole population must necessarily be employed in cultivation. Few countries in the world are more liable to the destruction of the crops by drought or floods; perhaps none in the world more sure of abundant harvests, if proper attention is paid to irrigation and drainage. The total quantity

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(30)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

of rain in the Carnatic is in general very deficient, being only on an average about 48 inches; and even this falls with the greatest irregularity, almost always coming in violent bursts, with long intervals ; a fall of five inches in a night is very common, and I have known 10 inches fall in one day, and a fortnight afterwards 12 inches in 36 hours, nearly half the supply of an average year thus coming within a fortnight. It is on this account that Tanjore, which alone has been properly attended to, has so remarkably advanced; while the other districts, in which the irrigation has not even been kept up, have retrograded. It may be asked bow much of this improvement has been owing to the revenue management; the answer is, the whole of it, for undoubtedly the finest system of irrigation possible would avail little if the district is mismanaged, but on the other hand the ablest collector can do little unless his district is supplied with water. But the superior revenue management of Tanjore has been especially shown in this very point, that the collectors, I believe, without exception, for 40 years, have considered the irrigation of the first consequence, and have most diligently and ably watched over it."
	*	*	*	*	*
" If we take the increase of revenue in Tanjore at 16 lacs, and consider it to have been progressive, as it has been upon the whole, the total additional revenue in 40 years was 320 lacs, and the total irrigation expenditure 32 lacs."

Further details of those effects
256. We give the foregoing as it stands ; it is lucid and conclusive by itself, and needs no remark from us. The following passage, taken from the same officer's second report on the same subject, dated 17 April, 1845, gives some more details of the comparison, and of the happy effects of the steady attention paid for so many years to the irrigation of Tanjore, obtained too at a cost quite insignificant in comparison :
"The revenue of Rajahmundry is now just what it was 40 years ago; viz., 19 lacs. That of Tanjore has almost regularly increased from 31 1/2  lacs to 47 1/2, being an increase of 16 lacs per annum, or 336 lacs in 42 years, showing the difference between a district of inferior advantages, but wisely managed, and one of greater capabilities, but allowed to go to ruin for want of a liberal expenditure in its irrigation.
	*	*	*	*	*
" But this improvement in Tanjore has been an advance upon a state in which the resources of the district had already been developed to a very considerable extent. The grand anicut, upon which the irrigation of the district mainly depends, had been constructed ages before, and multitudes of channels and works of masonry were in use at the commencement of this century.
" In Rajahmundry, nothing at all had ever been done to lead the water from the bed of the Godavery upon the country ; and,

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(31)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
excepting two or three small channels to lead off the water in the high freshes, the district was wholly unimproved.Yet upon that state of things, 42 years of peace under our government have done nothing for the district; and with the same extent of delta land nearly, and a much greater extent of good high lands, the district now produces 19 1/2 lacs, while Tanjore, with much inferior capabilities, yields, with much less hardship to the people, 47 1/2 lacs.
" The statement of produce in Tanjore shows much more distinctly the progress of things and the cause of its improvement, because the revenue, as before observed, fluctuates with prices. The last column, showing the amount per cent. which the fluctuations in each five years bear to the average produce, is the most striking proof of what may be effected by due attention to the irrigation. The seasons are now just as variable as they were 40 years ago, yet the fluctuations have been gradually reduced from 52 per cent. to almost nothing. What can have caused such a change as this, but the due application of the water of the Cauvery ; and can it be imagined that if the same wise and liberal system had been adopted with respect to the Godavery something like the same effect would not have been produced?"

The new works on the Godavery River

257. The next instance which we will take is that of the Rajahmundry district itself. In all the foregoing cases a great part of the work done must be considered as directed only to the maintenance and improvement of existing works. In Tinnevelly, as already said, this was emphatically the case ; the works consisted of the careful repair of tanks and channels, and even among improvements there were few works of any magnitude at all. In South Arcot and in Tanjore the principal works which conduced to the striking results noticed, viz., the two anicuts on the Coleroon river, were indeed new works ; but even their design was only to render existing works more efficient, by giving them a more entire command of the waters of the river. The instance now before us is of a different character, viz., a case in which the object was to give irrigation to a tract of country not possessing it at all before, except to a very limited extent, and of a very precarious and uncertain kind.
The Godavery, like the Cauvery, flows to the sea through a flat alluvial delta; and this tract has been for many years partially and imperfectly irrigated from the river ; but the irrigation had never been laid out on any comprehensive plan, and of late years the works had been almost wholly neglected. The revenue was declining, under the operation of a combination of causes, of which this neglect of the works of irrigation seems to have been the chief ; and while Tanjore under the beneficial effects of the lately constructed anicuts was paying with ease a revenue of 45 lacs, and annually increasing in wealth, Rajahmundry, of similar extent, with a far more fertile soil, and 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(32)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


inferior in no one natural advantage, was paying with extreme difficulty a revenue of 19 lacs, and its people were in the lowest state of poverty.

Origin of the project

258. So long ago as before the close of the last century, an engineer (Mr. Topping) had observed the facility with which the Godavery might be made to irrigate the districts on its banks, and had brought to the notice of government how desirable it was to throw an anicut or dam across the river, so as to raise the water, and thus make it available for that purpose. The project was allowed to sleep for half a century, but in the year 1844, the district and its revenue being in the declining state already noticed, it was again taken up. The Civil Engineer, Captain A. T. Cotton, first made a general report (12th August, 1844) on the feasibility of the project and the probable results ; and having been directed to collect and submit more specific information, he made a second and more detailed report on the 17th April, 1845, with detailed estimates of the cost of an anicut across the Godavery river, and a more general statement of the probable cost of a system of channels and other works in connexion with it, for the distribution of the water. The project received the approval of the Government, and ultimately of the Court of Directors ; and the construction of the anicut, the only part of the works at first sanctioned, was commenced early in 1847.

Nature of the undertaking.

259. The undertaking was a gigantic one ; a river exceeding two miles in actual width, besides the islands which at that point divide it into four branches, and running over a bed of pure sand of unknown depth, was to be arrested in its course by a dam 12 feet high thrown across it ; and a large part of its waters was to be diverted, and distributed over an extent of 3,000 square miles, by means of a network of channels, each one of which must not only be taken at that elevation which would enable it to perform its allotted part, in conjunction with the rest, in bringing the whole tract of country under irrigation, but must be adapted, as to size and gradient, to convey exactly the quantity of water required, and no more. And all this was to be done in a country where such works had never been heard of before on a scale of any magnitude, or at least only by tradition, and to be effected by the agency of workmen most ignorant and unskilful, who had to be taught almost everything, with a very scanty number of
skilled or professional superintendents, and where almost all the means of abridging or facilitating human labour, if obtained at all, must be fabricated on the spot by means of the same defective agency. The difficulties encountered in the prosecution of the work from the combination of all these unfavourable circumstances can certainly be fully realized only by those who had a part in the task of overcoming them : some glimpse of their character and amount may be obtained from

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(33)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Colonel Cotton's reports. But our business here is not with the difficulties of the undertaking, but with its cost and its results.

The cost of the works

260. Captain Cotton's estimate for the works amounted to 12 lacs of rupees, distributed as follows :

The anicut, with locks, sluices, &c.			5 lacs.
Embankments to the river				1 Ñ
Irrigation channels					2 Ñ	
Drainage works					1 Ñ
Sluices, locks, and other small works of masonry	1 Ñ	
Roads and bridges					2 Ñ
						__________
					TOTAL	 12 lacs.
						__________
But his more accurate estimate for the anicut itself amounted to 4,75,572 rupees. He supposed that the whole of the works would be completed in five years; and he calculated that at the end of the first 10 years the works would have afforded a net surplus income, above the average revenue of the district in the preceding 11 years, to the aggregate amount of 26,80,000 rupees, after deducting their first cost and repairs.
The completion of the works has required a longer time than was then anticipated, partly from delay in obtaining sanction for the channels and other works of distribution, partly because the extent of the operations necessary was found to be larger than was at first computed, and partly in consequence of the very insufficient means placed at Captain Cotton's disposal for laying out and planning the channels and other works. The cost too has been larger than was expected. The work had not proceeded far before it was found that the anicut would cost more than the estimate ; the stone quarries turned out to be deceptive, and the material could not be laid down at the price supposed ; a larger quantity than the estimate provided was found to be necessary ; and, lastly, a more finished and substantial style of construction was adopted. Upon the recommendation of a Committee appointed to consider the question, the Government, in February, 1849, sanctioned a supplemental estimate for the anicut, to the amount of 4,07,506 rupees, in addition to 5,03,703 rupees already expended; and in the same month of 1851, a further sum of 65,742 rupees was added for the purpose of extending one end of that work. Thus the total estimated cost of the anicut itself became 9,76,951 rupees, and that may be taken as its actual cost. The total expenditure on all parts of the project, up to the present time, is about 13 lacs; and it is calculated by Colonel Cotton that about 11 lacs may still be required ; making 24 lacs for the whole system of works, including a most important line of navigation, and a lac and a half of expenditure on roads.

The results hitherto in increase of revenue.

261. In exhibiting the results of this project, we will first show those already realized in comparison with the expenditure up to
C

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(34)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the present time, and then state the very much larger advantages which we are thereby fully warranted in anticipating, when the whole of the works shall be completed and in actual operation. And here we must observe that a comparison of the expenses and returns up to the present time is very unfair to the project, for two reasons; 1st, because the total cost of the anicut (a work which will supply the means of irrigating the whole tract) is now shown against the gains from a very small part of that extent, in consequence of the present incompleteness of the channels for distributing the water ; 2nd, because the large sums expended even on the works of distribution, in the last year at least, have not yet had time to give a return in revenue, and yet their whole cost also is included on the debet side. But even viewed under these disadvantageous circumstances the benefits from the work are seen to be very great; we will first take the whole revenue of the district, as shown in Statement 1, in Appendix (D.) It is there seen that on the average of the 11 years preceding the commencement of the works, the whole land revenue of the Rajahmundry collectorate was 19,08,129 rupees ; and even that is too favourable a statement, for in the last two or three years of that period the revenue of parts of the district had improved greatly, in consequence of the clearing out of some of the old channels, previously very much choked with deposit.
In 1847 the work at the anicut commenced, and the revenue instantaneously felt the benefit of it.
In that first year the collections were larger than in any one of the preceding 11 years ; and each of the succeeding six years has shown an advance above the preceding one, with the exception of the single season 1849-50, in which there was a destructive flood in the Godavery ; and even in that year the collections exceeded those of any one of the 11 years before the anicut was begun. Nor is this all ; in the very first year of the works, and in every subsequent year, the increase of revenue above the previous average exceeded the sum expended on the works, so that the net revenue, after deducting the amount of that expenditure, has been actually greater in every year, even while the works have been in progress, than the average of the antecedent 11 years. And up to the close of the revenue year 1850-51, with which the statement closes, the aggregate amount of such net gain was no less than 6,89,391 rupees. The total expenditure on the works had been 12,65,261 rupees, and the total increase of revenue above the previous average was 19,5 1,802 rupees ; leaving a net surplus gain, as already said, of 6,89,391 rupees.

The cause of the immediate large increase of revenue

262. This striking fact deserves special notice. To,what are we to ascribe the instant rise of revenue and the sudden spring prosperity of which it is the index, taking place immediately on the commencement of the works. It could not then be

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(35)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

wholly the effect of irrigation, for in the first year the benefit in that way must have been very small ; and even now, the increase of irrigation, large as it has been, is not sufficient to account for the whole gain in revenue. Another cause must then be sought, and we believe it may be found in the condition of things repeatedly noticed by Colonel Cotton, viz., in the vast stimulus given to industry and production by the employment of labour and the circulation of capital involved in the expenditure of large sums in a depressed and poverty-stricken district. This is an important element among the incidents of such undertakings as the present, which has been too little recognized ; Colonel Cotton indeed dwelt upon it in his very first report on the Godavery irrigation,* and his expectations of profit from the works were framed with reference to it ; but in general it has been entirely overlooked. In the present instance, indeed, its operation has been increased by the fact that a large Madras firm, which has a sugar factory near Rajahmundry, has been enabled very much to augment its purchases, as the extension of irrigation made it possible to extend the cultivation of the cane. But though this fact explains the otherwise strange circumstance that the increase of revenue exceeds the sum expended, it does not weaken but confirms the great and important fact that the outlay of capital in a district in the employment of labour, whether by government or by private persons, produces an immediate and powerful effect on the revenue. Practically indeed this has long

(Foot note: The following passage is taken from the first report on the irrigation of Rajahmundry :ó" In examining the question of the propriety of such an outlay as this, there is one point which I consider deserving of particular attention ; we are apt, generally, to think of a government expenditure as if it were precisely similar to one made by private individual ; but in countries circumstanced as these rare, there is a vast difference, and especially in this particular case of Rajahmundry. A lac of rupees cannot be spent in any district without a large portion of it immediately finding its way back to the treasury ; but in this district, which is now suffering such difficulties from the immense diminution of specie, probably' the greater part will be paid back in the course of the year. This additional circulation will enable many to pay their kists who would otherwise not have done,so ; and perhaps there would be little more difference made by its disbursements,. in respect of the state of the treasury, than that such portion of the population as would otherwise have been either not at all employed, or to little effect, would thus be usefully occupied. During three or four months the great bulk of the population are employed to very little purpose, where there is almost literally no capital to enable the landowners to make improvements; but an expenditure of three or four lacs a year would put life and activity into the whole district. That part of the population which are just now, from the impoverished state of the district, a dead weight upon the rest, from want of employment, would be provided for, and the supply of specie would give a great stimulus to the remainder. Indeed, I would state it as my opinion, that, independently of the ultimate returns, the treasury would not be at all the poorer at the end of the year for such a disbursement in the present state of the district; such an outlay seems to me more nearly allied to a loan from a landlord to his tenant, to be expended in improving his farm, than to a simple expenditure." The revenue accounts of recent years show how singularly accurate this prediction was.)
c2

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(36)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


been known, every tahsildar in the country is well aware how much more easily his collections come in years when merchants are making large advances in his talook for sugar, indigo, cotton, &c., but it has not been adequately recognized by the government, or seen in its real bearing on the outlay of money by government on the works of irrigation or on the roads. In future it is to be hoped it will not be lost sight of in that relation.

Probable future results of the works.

263. We will now briefly state what appear to be the future prospects of benefit from the anicut. We have already said that Captain Cotton computed that at the end of 10 years it would show an aggregate net gain in revenue of 26,80,000 rupees over and above all charges, in excess of the average revenue prior to the improvements. We have seen that one of the elements of this calculation, viz., the cost of the works, was very materially under estimated ; and the period for the completion of the works being much protracted through the causes already noticed, another element of the calculation was modified, for this delay necessarily postponed the time when the whole system of works would be in operation. But though the estimate was thus disarranged, there still seems good ground for believing that the anticipation of net results will not be found to have been too sanguine. Captain Cotton's calculation in 1845 was as follows :
Expenditure in the next five years (i.e. Rupees. dating from the commencement of actual work) to put the Delta in order........................12,00,000 
Ditto, annual repairs from that time for five years, at 1 per cent. yearly, on 24 lacs of revenue................................................................ 1,20,000
												Total expenditure	13,20,000
Increase of revenue in 10 years at an average of four lacs yearly........................................................................................................ 40,00,000
Net gain in the next 10 years by a liberal expenditure....................................................................................................................    26,80,000*
(Footnote: See the second report on the Delta of the Godavery. Besides the above, Captain Cotton also took credit for the prevention of an annual loss of revenue to the amount of 90,000 rupees, which, as he inferred from the accounts of past years, would take place in the ten years in question, in the absence of the projected works. The Board of Revenue do not deny the justness of this estimate ; and they specially notice the then declining state of the revenue as one principal reason in favour of undertaking the works. But we take no account of this part of the calculation, because we do not feel ourselves in a position to speak confidently upon it, and the amount may be open to dispute. We confine ourselves to the increase over the previous average revenue; but it is evident that this is to take too limited a view of the results.)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(37)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The calculation at present may be stated as follows :ó
		Outlay.
Actual expenditure up to the present time		 Rupees.
(five years)					13,00,000
Estimated further expenditure in the next
three years 					11,00,000
Ordinary repairs and minor improvements
for two years, at 1,20,000 rupees yearly		2,40,000
					Total.......26,40,000
		Income.
Actual increase of revenue up to the present time	19,54,802
Probable increase during the next five years
at an average of seven lacs yearly			35,00,000
					Total.......54,54,802
Probable net gain in 10 years from the
commencement of the works				28,14,802

The excess of collections in the single year 1850-51 over the average before the works were begun, was five lacs and three-quarters ; the revenue has largely increased since the very first year of the improvement, and there is no doubt that it will continue to rise at an accelerated ratio. Not to mention other channels and works, one single work constructed this year, the Ganarum Aqueduct, will convey water to a tract of country of 30,000 acres, which alone will yield a revenue of little less than a lac of rupees. We feel sure, therefore, that we are quite safe in assuming seven lacs as the average yearly excess of collections during the next five years, over the average before the works were commenced ; we fully believe that in point of fact it will be still larger. If, then, Captain Cotton largely under-estimated the cost of the project,* there seems good reason to believe that he

(Footnote:* It is an apt illustration of the mode in which undertakings of this nature are regarded at Madras, that while the committee who investigated the causes of the insufficiency of the estimate, and the probable cost of completing the work, received the thanks of the government, and very deservedly, there was nothing but severe censure for the officer who devised the project, and superintended its execution, at enormous and incessant labour to himself, both mental and bodily. No matter that he had given a net addition of several lacs annually to the revenue, and that he had brought industry, enterprise and wealth to a community of a million persons, previously poverty-stricken and desponding, he had committed the grave offence of making too small an estimate ; by an error of judgment which might have been supposed pardonable in an undertaking of such vastness and such novelty, he had represented the money price of all the enormous advantages of the work, utterly insignificant in reality, as more insignificant still).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(38)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
also greatly under-rated its benefits; and that after deducting the increased expenditure, the net gain at the end of 10 years will be even larger than he expected.

Probable eventual results, when the works shall be in full operation

264. And if we carry our views further, and contemplate the probable eventual results, we cannot but feel persuaded that his largest anticipations will be realized, both as regards the direct profit in revenue to government and the vast accession of wealth to the people. We cannot forbear to glance hastily at this promising future.
The tract capable of being watered from the anicut is 3,000 square miles, or two million acres; and there is more than sufficient water for this extent. But as a part of it is capable of being watered also from the Kistnah, by means of the anicut to be constructed at Bezwarrah, Colonel Cotton takes 12,00,000 acres as the actual extent to be irrigated. And out of this there will be water for about 1,00,000 acres all through the dry season, which will probably be all cultivated eventually with sugar cane, betel, chillies, plantains and other valuable products. The richness of the soil adapts it admirably for the sugar cane, the cultivation of which has very much extended since the anicut was built; and a Madras mercantile house has a large sugar factory very near Rajahmundry, as already noticed. The growth and manufacture of sugar are likely to increase immensely. Colonel Cotton reckons that after the works have been completed, a yearly outlay of 1,20,000 rupees will be fully sufficient to maintain these works in good order ; and adding to this sum 50,000 rupees for the yearly cost of the engineering and Maramut establishments, being on a liberal scale and at an outside estimate, and the further sum of 1,20,000 rupees as the interest at 5 per cent. on the capital invested, 24 lacs, the total annual charge will be 2,90,000 rupees, which will give less than four annas per acre as the yearly cost of conveying the water to the land. The increased income to government is reckoned at only 2 1/2  rupees an acre, though it will hardly anywhere be less, and will be very much more over a great part of the tract, because a large part of the newly-irrigated land will be such as was never cultivated at all before, and never paid anything. Even at that moderate rate, however, the total increase of revenue will not be less than 30 lacs annually; being more than cent. per cent. annually on the outlay, after deducting all charges ; and large as this appears, there seems nothing impossible or incredible in it, if we look at Tanjore, which now actually pays with ease and alacrity a revenue of 47 lacs.

Vast gain to the people.

265. And this triumphant success, this magnificent addition to the revenue, is not to be gained by exaction, by trenching on the fair rights of property or industry; on the contrary, the noblest feature of all is, that this vast gain to the government is to be obtained by adding in a far higher degree to the wealth, comfort and happiness of the people. The value of the crop on

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(39)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
an acre of dry land does not exceed 6 rupees, but that of an acre of rice is 20 rupees, and of an acre of sugar cane it is 230 rupees ; being a gain of 14 rupees an acre in the former case, and 224 rupees in the latter. The gain to the producer therefore, by the improvements in question, may be stated as follows, at a low estimate:-

1,00,000 acres of sugar cane and other			Rupees.
valuable products at 200 rupees				2,00,00,000
	 					
11,00,000 acres of rice at 12 rupees 	 			1,32,00,000
						___________________
						Total.......3,32,00,000
Reckoning the value of the crops at these moderate rates, and taking no notice of the fact that much of this will be land now altogether waste and unproductive, or of the certainty of the crops under river irrigation, compared with their precariousness at present, we find that the gain to the ryot is 332 lacs, and if he pays 30 lacs in revenue, he will still be a clear gainer of 300 lacs a year. It is no wonder that the greatest anxiety is displayed to get a share of the irrigation, or the greatest alacrity to use the water when so obtained; nor is there anything surprising in the striking change which Colonel Cotton so prominently
remarks on in his later reports, as exhibiting itself in the character of the people, activity, enterprise and life having taken the place of their former apathy and despondence.

The Samulcottah Channel.

266. In further illustration of the effects of the improvements in Rajahmundry, we will detail the results of particular parts of the whole project ; and the first work which we will take is the Samulcottah Channel. This is an entirely new branch taken off from one of the old irrigating channels, called the Toolia Bagah ;it is 27 miles in length, and eventually will water 15 villages; but as yet the water has not reached all of them, from the incompleteness of the subsidiary works. The channel was excavated in 1846, at an expenditure of 13,472 rupees ; its supply was first increased by the operation of the anicut in 1848, which affected the revenue of 1849; the Table No. 2, in Appendix (D.), shows the results, being a comparison of the revenue from the 15 villages concerned, before and after the excavation of the channel. The total sum expended on the improvements was 29,226 rupees, spread over five years, but of which 22,000 rupees was spent in the first two years ; and the increased collections up to the end of the third year far more than covered the whole outlay. But as this channel has benefited by the anicut, we will add to its own cost a share of that of the anicut proportioned to the area watered by it, compared with the whole extent to be irrigated by the anicut, viz. 1-18th, or 11,300 rupees. The outlay will then be 40,526 rupees ; and the increase of revenue in the third year from the first commencement of the improvement

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(40)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
exceeded this whole outlay, much of which was in fact incurred after that year. The average yearly collection in the six years preceding the improvements was 25,280 rupees ; in the fifth year from that time it was more than double, being 51,245 rupees ; in the sixth year (1851), as we learn from the collector, it was 56,882 rupees. The aggregate excess of revenue in those six years, above the average of the preceding period, was 1,13,876 rupees; and the net gain in revenue, after deducting the cost of the improvements and repairs (including 4,217 rupees expended in 1851), was 62,433 rupees. 
Lastly, to compare the yearly increase of revenue with the outlay. The total first cost, taking as such the whole outlay of the first two years, and the share of the cost of the anicut, was 33,237 rupees. The marginal statement shows that the increase of revenue over the average before the improvements has been larger and larger in each succeeding year as the works advanced; and undoubtedly it will continue to advance, because the minor works for distributing the water are even yet far from being complete. The increase in 1851 above the average prior to the improvements was 31,602 rupees, and deducting from this 2,000 rupees as the average cost of repairs, there remains 29,602 rupees, being 95 per cent. on the first cost. But the revenue, as already said, is still increasing; and there seems no doubt whatever that in a few years the net amount, clear of the cost of repairs, will reach at least 38,000 rupees, being more than 111 per cent. annual return on the first cost.
		
TABLE 40 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

The Woondy Talook

267. As another instance, we will take the Woondy Talook. This talook lies on the left bank of the Godavery, just below the anicut ; a part of it is high, while the rest is so low, that being undrained, it has always been liable to much injury from floods. The latter part of the talook was watered by two anicut channels, called the Boopiah and the Apparow Channels, which passed also through the higher part, but at too low a level to be available for irrigation in that part of their course. Both channels had been totally neglected for many years, and were much choked up with deposit. The improvements commenced in 1839 with the clearing out of the old channels, and they have been continued every year. In addition to that clearing out, the works have been chiefly of three kinds :-1st. Constructing locks and dams of masonry across the channels in their passage through the high grounds, so as to irrigate the lands there. 2nd. Excavating branch channels to reach tracts not formerly irrigated; and 3rd. In guarding 
against floods in the low part, by embanking the river and forming drainage works.

The following table shows the expenditure and the results :ó

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(41)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


TABLE 41 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(42)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Results obtained

268. The total outlay in improving the old channels has been 18,192 rupees; but as they water lands in Masulipatam also, half of that amount is deducted as due to that district, and the remaining moiety only, viz. 9,096 rupees, is debited to the Woondy Talook. The minor improvements of the various kinds above stated have cost on the whole 44,948 rupees m 16 years ; but the greater part of it, viz. 25,337 rupees, in the six years, 1839 to 1844. Turning now to the revenue column, we find that the average yearly collections in six years preceding 1839, when the improvements were commenced, is 69,223 rupees, while since that period they have been steadily rising, with the exception of two bad years, when there was much loss, until, in 1851, they amounted to 1,36,662 rupees, being nearly double the average prior to the improvements. In the earlier of the two bad years just spoken of, viz. 1843, the cause of the loss was drought, or rather it was the want of an anicut, as there was plenty of water in the river; in
the latter year, the cause was an extraordinary flood, or the insufficiency of the embankments.

The anicut first affected the supply of water to these channels in 1850; we will therefore compare the outlay with the results both prior and subsequently to that period. The total excess of revenue in the 11 years, 1839 to 1849, above what it would have been at the average of the preceding six years, is 2,88,174 rupees, being more than five-and-a-half-fold the whole amount expended on the improvements up to that time; but we must add again, that the real effect is much greater than is thus shown, because year by year improvements were going on and producing fresh increase of revenue, which increase is unduly diminished by being spread over the whole period.
But now to include the cost of the anicut. The area to be ultimately watered by these channels is about one-fifteenth of the whole tract that will be irrigated by the anicut; and we therefore take one-fifteenth of the cost of that work, or 60,000 rupees, as debitable to them. Add to this 9,096 rupees, the cost of the improvements to the main works, and 22,474, being half the amount of expenditure in the talook, and we obtain the first cost of these improvements; the other half of the latter sum is the probable amount of repairs, being at the rate of 1,404 rupees annually. The total first cost of the work, then, is 91,570 rupees. The total increase of collections in the two years 1850 and 1851, above the average prior to 1839, is 1,23,216 rupees, or 61,608 rupees a year; and deducting from this 1,404 rupees, the annual expenditure on repairs, the net gain in revenue is 60,204 rupees, or 65 per cent. per annum on the first cost of the works, including the share of the anicut. But this is trifling compared with 
what may be expected with certainty in a few years. For from the want of the detailed works for distributing the water over the talook, which could not be attended to for want of officers and surveyors to lay them out, the water

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(43)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
does not yet reach to nearly the whole extent of land which will ultimately be watered by it.

The importance of this case as an example 

269. We have given a somewhat lengthened notice to the works on the Godavery, because their great importance seemed to us to deserve it. They afford a most instructive instance of the vast benefits to be obtained by extending irrigation, and an emphatic encouragement to advance boldly and vigorously in that course of improvement.

Even while the works are in progress and far from being complete, and while a large part of their effect is of necessity still undeveloped, the direct return in revenue have amounted, taking each year's increase of revenue in comparison with the whole expenditure up to that time, to above 62 per cent. per annum on the capital laid out;* and there is no doubt whatever that the future returns will be enormously larger.

While to the people the change may be described as one from death to life : at so low a point were they before in poverty and indifference, so great is the contrast now in activity and energy. And all this has been obtained, it should be remembered, literally without any outlay, without any sacrifice of income whatever; for in every year of the progress of the work, the increase of revenue has been materially in excess of the expenditure. It would be unsafe to reckon upon an equal measure of success in every instance, for the circumstances of Rajahmundry were peculiarly favourable; but we are bold to declare our firm conviction that there is no district in the country in which a similar expenditure would not be largely remunerative to the government and a blessing to the people, though not in all in the same degree.

The roads of the district must be improved

270. In closing our remarks on this case, we may observe, lastly, that there is one essential species of improvement in connexion with improved irrigation works, which has not yet been adequately attended to, and which was neglected in the present instance; we mean the facilitating of the transport of produce. We have seen that in Rajahmundry the additional income every year exceeded the outlay; yet a trifling sum, under 10,000 rupees, for the formation of a most important

(Footnote:* The comparison is here made with the average revenue of the 11 years immediately preceding 1846-47, the year in which the improvements began. But this, as already observed, is unfair to the works, because the improvement of several of the large old channels was commenced several years before, and not only arrested the downward progress of the revenue, but raised it somewhat. A fairer comparison would be to omit the last three years immediately preceding, and take the previous eight, viz., 1835-36 to 1842-43; the average revenue for comparison would then be 18,59,354 rupees, and the annual percentage of direct profit from the works 71 per cent. on the sums expended.óSee Statement 1, in Appendix (D.).)


---------------------------------------------------------------------------(44)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
piece of road to connect the producing parts of the district with the shipping port, was once and again refused by government, on the ground that the expenditure on the irrigation works was so heavy. Had it not fortunately happened that the principal irrigation channels themselves form a valuable line of communication though as yet very imperfect, this policy must greatly have retarded the beneficial effects of the irrigation improvements. No time should now be lost in perfecting the canals for navigation and in forming a system of communication throughout the district.

And the port of Coringa.	

The port of Coringa also requires attention. This valuable harbour has hitherto been utterly neglected, and it is no wonder that it has rapidly deteriorated within memory ; yet a very small expenditure, and the application of those principles of treatment which have been developed by attention to similar works in England, would restore and greatly improve it. We shall recur to this subject hereafter. Many concurrent circumstances point to Coringa and its port as likely to become hereafter one of the largest and most important centres of commerce in the whole Indian Peninsula.

Remarks on the statement of the results of improvements in irrigation

271. This seems a suitable place to offer a few observations on the statement * given in Appendix (Z.), showing the revenue results of the outlay incurred by government, during a number of years, in improving irrigation. The statement was drawn up under the orders of the Board of Revenue in the Department of Public Works, with much care and labour; but we have changed its form, and put it in a shape which appears to us more convenient than its former one. It is not a perfect statement, being wanting in some details : but it embodies all the information which the Board could obtain after a great deal of trouble and correspondence ; and in all that it gives it may fairly be taken as authentic. It is a point of no little importance that even a commencement has been made in collecting such information ; and the reports of each succeeding year may be expected to be more and more complete.
The present statement covers a period of 14 years; viz. from 1836 to 1849 inclusive. It includes all completed works of any magnitude executed within that term, for the improvement of the irrigation ; not merely new works, but enlargements and extensions of old ones; a number of even very small works are entered in it. Lastly, we are assured by the Board's secretary, that it comprehends all works coming within the foregoing description, whether successful or otherwise ; and is not in any sense or degree a selection. It includes a number of improvements in connexion with the Godavery anicut, but it does not include the anicut itself, because that was only in course of construction at the time when the statement closes.

(Footnote:*The result being here given, the statement (which is long) is omitted.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(45)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A very few works in it have not been profitable; the reasons of this

272. An examination of this table places the good policy of improving the irrigation in a very striking point of view, even confining our regards to the narrow object of the revenue. Taking as single works one or two entries, each of which in fact refers to several small works, it contains 39 works, of which three only have been unremunerative ; viz. Nos. 13, 14 and 27. The first of these three, the Moonunghy Channel in Guntoor District, designed for the irrigation of a certain tract, was never completed, having been superseded while in course of excavation, by the better and more recent project of the Toongabudra Channel (No. 10 in the list), which waters the same land and other besides. The second, the Ivany Tank in the same district, exhibits a trifling loss, in consequence of having been breached in a most unusual flood in the year 1849 ; the repair of this accident materially raised the average cost of repairs in the few years since the restoration of the tank ; but there is no reason to doubt that the work will still be a profitable one. The third work, viz. the new Iyen Voykal in Trichinopoly District, has been apparently the worst of all ; but in point of fact it is not a failure at all, inasmuch as increase of revenue from the work itself was no part of the intention when it was undertaken, but another object, which has been fully attained. When the Upper Coleroon anicut, alluded to above, was undertaken for the benefit of Tanjore, the old Iyen Voykal, a valuable and very productive channel in the Trichinopoly District, taken off from the Coleroon about 10 miles below the site of the proposed anicut, would have been thereby deprived of a large part of its supply of water, unless it had been prolonged upward, so as to bring its head above the anicut. This prolongation is the present work, styled the new Iyen Voykal. The work was a necessary part of the plan for improving the irrigation of Tanjore; and properly the expenditure ought to have been charged against that district; in which case the very large rate of profit from the upper anicut now shown would have been slightly reduced. Thus this channel cannot in any sense be considered a failure, because the very important object with which it was undertaken was fully attained. In point of fact, the revenue from the channel fell off after this improvement (for improvement it undoubtedly was), but for this that improvement is obviously not responsible. Some remarks will be found below (see para. 303) as to the probable real causes of this decline.

A large part of the outlay has been enormously profitable.

273. With the exception of the three works above noticed, all the others in the list exhibit a profit in revenue, and some an enormous profit. The following are those which display the highest rates of return on the capital invested, and among them are several of the largest works in the whole list.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------(46)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE 46 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(47)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Thus the aggregate cost of those 13 improvements was 2,34,901 rupees, and the total net annual gain in revenue, after deducting the annual charges, was 3,17,357 rupees, being at the rate of 134 per cent. per annum on the capital expended.

And the result of the whole is a very large profit

274. Of the remaining works in the list, the rate of net annual profit ranges from 3 3/4 per cent. in one case, to 47 1/2 per cent. But it must be borne in mind that in many of those cases which now show the smallest rate of profit, the works have been in operation only a very limited term, and it often takes several years to develope the full effects of improvements of this nature.

Taking the whole of the works in the list, the successful and the unsuccessful, the following is the result : the total first cost was 5,41,116 rupees; the total average yearly net gain in revenue, after deducting charges, was 3,76,737 rupees, being a net profit direct to government at the rate of 69 1/2 per cent. per annum on the cost. This calculation indeed does not include the charge of the engineering and other establishments, but if we add 25 per cent, on that account both to the first cost and to the annual repairs, &c., a proportion which we know (see Appendix AA.) to be in excess of the actual truth, we still have a clear direct profit to government of 53 3/4 per cent. per annum on the outlay. Had there been a more sufficient engineering establishment to make more careful previous inquiries, and to oversee the executive more efficiently, some few of the works in the list might possibly not have been undertaken, and certainly all would have been more cheaply accomplished. But taking the list as it
stands, it cannot be denied that the result shown is most satisfactory ; a most convincing proof of the value of irrigation, and of the ease with which the resources of the government as well as of the people may by that means be immensely increased.

Losses through the neglect of the works of irrigation

276. Having given the foregoing examples of great and immediate gain from increased outlay on irrigation works, it might be interesting and useful to quote some instances of the converse ; viz., of the actual loss both to the revenue and to the general wealth from the past neglect of the works of irrigation. But we are unfortunately without the materials necessary to carry out this inquiry completely, as there is no record of the former and present revenue from the various tanks or watercourses. The decay of cultivation and revenue under a particular work, indeed, will occasionally attract the notice of the civil engineer or the collector, and the cause of' evil will be removed by repair, but commonly no record is made, even then, of the past history of the work, and the circumstances are soon forgotten, even by the officer himself, amid the pressure of other calls on his attention. Very many cases must have occurred in Tinnevelly during the gradual revival of its irrigated revenue which we have described, where the revenue under

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(48)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

works had fallen off from their being in need of repair, and rose again when the repair was made, but unfortunately the particulars of those cases have not been preserved. A few instances of this nature which have casually come to our knowledge, will be found in a subsequent part of this report (see the early part of section 9). The various ancient channels of Rajahmundry, and still more those of Ganjam, would all supply striking examples of vast loss by the neglect of irrigation works, if we were acquainted with the particulars.

Loss of the Ryot

277. And in connexion with the subject of loss of revenue from neglect to repair works of irrigation, it must never be forgotten that for every hundred rupees of revenue so sacrificed a further loss of fully 150 rupees is entailed on the ryot ; indeed the loss to him is often total ruin, in cases which the government only regard as a decline of revenue to the amount of a few hundred or a few thousands of rupees out of their hundreds of lacs. For if the tank or channel on which the value of his land depends is permitted to fall to decay, he has no resource, he cannot even, under the existing revenue arrangements, cultivate it with dry crops, for if he did so he would have to pay the full rent for irrigated land, and the ground is therefore left untilled. The following is an instance of this, and not a very rare one : the tank of the small village of Poottiavauripilly in North Arcot District was breached in 1847 so as to be incapable of holding water ; it was not repaired till 1851, the delay being chiefly in consequence of the Civil Engineer Department having had no time to visit it, as the Board of Revenue would not sanction a talook estimate sent up. The ryots, who are poor and hardworking people, deeply felt the loss of their tank, and did their best to get water from wells to cultivate a little of the land. The land thus cultivated has yielded 67 rupees a year, while the average collections prior to the breaching of the tank were 426 rupees ; the estimate for the repair of the tank was only 750 rupees.
Thus, in this petty case the government sustained a positive loss of above 1,400 rupees in four years, for want of a proper person to estimate for this trifling and simple work. But the loss to the ryots has been much more heavy ; they have been reduced to much actual distress.

Opinions of Mr. C. R Cotton as to the value of irrigation.

281. The importance and value of irrigation to the prosperity of the country, is a point which is to be decided rather upon argument and proof, than by reference to any authority, however deserving of respect. We will, however, here quote the opinions of two officers, who, as well from their character as from their particular position, are entitled to be heard with much deference on this question. In July, 1838, Mr. C. R. Cotton, a member of the Board of Revenue, was appointed a commissioner to report on the cause of the decline of the revenue of the Madras Presidency. In the discharge of this duty he instituted

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(49)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
detailed inquiries, and had collected much information when his health gave way, and in the beginning of 1840 he was compelled to relinquish the task and quit India. Before his departure he drew up a general report (dated 20 February, 1840), embodying the result of his inquiries as far as they had proceeded ; and in that paper he thus records his opinion as to the essential importance of improving and extending the works of irrigation:-
" 61. There is no country in the world where the items constituting an unfavourable season are so few, and where the means of obviating them are so extensively within the power of the government. The commanding position in which we now stand in the Peninsula of India, gives us such complete control over the sources and direction of all the streams which traverse it, and which are fed by the various monsoons of the east and of the west, that there is no part of any one district which cannot with the greatest facility be brought under the fertilizing influence of a river; and so long as one drop of water is allowed to run waste into the sea, we must take blame to ourselves for not exerting our best efforts to obviate the evils of poverty or the dreadful effects of famine.
"62. We have hitherto taken far too limited and illiberal a view of this important object ; attempts have been even made to throw a doubt on the policy of extending works of irrigation, as tending to push on the agricultural interests to the detriment of others ; but experience, and a moment's consideration, convince us that such an impression originated in error, and has been supported by false notions ; and as long as it is allowed to have weight, so long will the advance of the prosperity and revenues of this part of India be seriously impeded.
" 63. By irrigation every species of product is improved, and the labour of tillage reduced, while the amount of produce is increased on any given space; and if the extent of population does not keep pace with that increase, or new varieties of crop do not prevent a superabundance of the grains now commonly cultivated, the decrease of price must be followed by a corresponding decrease in the commutation at which the assessment is noted, whereby both grower and consumer will be directly benefited, and the government repaid by the extension of cultivation and the improved means of the people."

Opinion of Mr. John Sullivan

282. After Mr. Cotton's departure Mr. John Sullivan, an officer of long revenue experience, was employed to prosecute the inquiry left incomplete by the former gentleman, and he made separate reports on several districts. In his report on Coimbatore the following passages occur, in which Mr. Sullivan states, in strong terms, his opinion of the importance of giving more attention to the improvement of irrigation works, and urges various arguments and proofs in support of that opinion :-
"3.	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(50)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"The degree in which lands watered from the rivers that are fed by the south-west monsoon are affected in a bad season, depends entirely upon the locality of the rivers. If the sources of those rivers are far to the westward, the lands under them yield an abundant harvest, in what may be the worst of seasons for other lands.
" In Coimbatore, the rivers which possess this advantage in the greatest degree are, 1st, the Cauvery ; 2d, the Bhowany ; 3d, Allyoor ; 4th, Minor Streams ; in a less degree, ' the Umrawatty ;' partially, ' the Noel.'
" 4. It will be seen from the accompanying statement, that comparing the good season of Fusly 1236 with the very bad season of 1246, there was an actual increase in the latter year in the revenue from the land watered by the rivers ' Bhowany ' and ' Allyoor,' a very trifling decrease only in the revenue dependent upon the ' Umrawatty,' and an immense defalcation from the lands of every other description. With this incontestable proof that the prosperity of the revenue of Coimbatore depends entirely upon the degree in which the district can be brought within the influence of artificial irrigation, it is very extraordinary to hear an opinion from the acting principal collector that it would neither be for the interest of the government nor the people that any considerable expense should be incurred in improving or extending the works of irrigation. His reasons are, that, as regards the ryots, a considerable extension of cultivation would, by reducing the prices, be detrimental to the interests of those who did not share in it; and with respect to those who have the means and inclination to extend their cultivation, there appears to be quite sufficient waste land in the district, both wet and dry, which they may bring into cultivation without government incurring any expense to enable them to do so.
" 5. For nine out of ten years this fine district has been reduced to a state of extreme misery, simply because the usual supplies of water for the cultivation of the land have been withheld ; wherever these supplies have been furnished, the country is in a flourishing state, the revenue of government is steadily increasing, the value of land is enhanced, and there is a total absence of that misery which prevails in every other part of the district ; and yet the collector thinks it would be better to risk the periodical return of this misery, than to do anything that might hurt the interests of the favoured few who thrive upon famine prices, while the bulk of the people are in jeopardy for food.
" 6. The collector shows that there has been a steady increase in the prices of the principal articles of agricultural produce since the first cession of the produce to the British government, and that the rise of price during the last 12 years is to be attributed to deficiency of produce from bad seasons. Comparing

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(51)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the prices of paddy which prevailed in 1802, when the survey assessment was introduced, and in the five succeeding years, with the prices of the last eight years, there is an increase of upwards of 20 per cent. upon the average in the last period, notwithstanding the very large increase that has been made in the interval to this species of produce, in consequence of improved irrigation. In some of the latter years, famine prices have prevailed; the produce of the country has been quite insufficient for the population ; and yet the collector doubts whether any attempt should be made to increase the quantity of food.
" 7. He seems to forget that, at all events, population is likely to keep pace with increase of produce ; that the produce, therefore, of Coimbatore might be made as large and certain as that of Tanjore, without any permanent effect being produced upon prices, famine prices being left out of consideration.
" 8. Every fourth or fifth year the government loses a large revenue, the people suffer from a scarcity of food, and the cattle perish for want of water ; if we are to do nothing to supply this want, it is evident that these evils are irremediable. When the people of Coimbatore are starving, the people of Malabar to the west, and the people of Tanjore to the east, have abundance, simply because their lands are well watered.
" 9. The collector appears to forget that the waste land, wet and dry, which he speaks of as available for cultivation, cannot be cultivated without water ; the more certain the supply of water the better the cultivation, but no supply can be certain that depends upon the falling rains. When dry land is converted into wet, the produce is increased fivefold; if the supply of water be never failing, this increase is certain, and the revenue of government increases in nearly an equal proportion.
"10. It is quite clear, therefore, that instead of standing still, the government should never relax their efforts until they have succeeded in turning upon the land all the water that is now permitted to run waste to the sea. When all has been done that can be done in this way, by far the largest portion of all the districts, Tanjore alone excepted, will remain dependent upon the monsoon rains for its produce, liable therefore, or rather sure to be visited periodically with scarcity, and not certain in any one year of yielding a full harvest.
"11. The records will show that there is not a single district, Canara and Tanjore excepted, in which a failure of crops to a certain extent does not occur every year. The people of the northern districts have suffered severe privations for several successive years. In Ganjarn, scarcity prevails at this moment; and yet in that and in other districts, rivers are rolling through them, filled with water for many months in the year, which, if turned upon the land, would ensure them abundance at all seasons.
D2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------(52)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
" 12. In Coimbatore the great fall in the revenue from the Nunjah lands in Fusly 1246 was owing entirely to a deficient supply of water in the river. Lands bearing the assessment of 29,847 rupees were not cultivated, and on lands which were cultivated and assessed at 13,487 rupees, remission for shavi was granted to the amount of 11,032 rupees.'
" The decrease of 266 rupees was occasioned by lands situated in the village of Munioor, in the extreme limits of the irrigation of the Nunjah Pagaloor (Cavery) Channel, not being cultivated, owing to the want of water.
"The decrease of 7,896 rupees was owing to lands dependent on the Codivairy Channel (Bhowany River), in the village of Perindaloor of Sattemengal Talook, and to lands dependent on the Calingaroyen Channel, not being cultivated from deficiency of water.
" This decrease of (19,757) arose from lands assessed at 9,529 rupees, in 19 villages dependent on the Umrawatty river, in the Caroor Talook, not being cultivated, and from remission being made to the amount of 10,228 rupees in lands, the crops in which failed from deficiency of water.
"The decrease of 652 in the assessment of lands left waste in the Talooks of Danaickcottah, Cheyoor and Pullachey, owing to the failure of these (the jungle streams).
" The decrease (22,589) from lands being left waste, and from remissions having been made for withered produce.
" 13. No one who reads these details can hesitate, I imagine, as to the expediency of expending money upon the improvement of the irrigation of this district ; it is by such expenditure alone indeed, judiciously made, that we can hope to see it restored to its former prosperous state. The means of making this improvement is obvious : viz., the formation of reservoirs in the most favourable positions for storing the surplus waters of the rivers which are filled from the south-west monsoon, as proposed by the engineers, Colonel De Havilland and Captain Cotton.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
"24. Referring to what I have said of the advantage to be derived from a judicious expenditure upon works of irrigation, I beg to enclose a statement which has just reached me from the principal collector, and which shows that from Fusly 1209 up to Fusly 1249, a period of 40 years, the sum expended in improving and extending the works dependent upon the ' Bhowany ' and ' Umrawatty,' two of the rivers which are well supplied by the rains of the south-west monsoon, was 1,00,405 rupees, and that the actual net gain from this expenditure has been 10,60,340 rupees ; that is, gain after deducting the charge of the works, and the revenue which the land was capable of yielding when it was dependent upon the periodical rains for its produce. This is an increase of more than fivefold to the revenue, and of more than double that amount to the proprietor."

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(53)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minute in Council by the same gentleman.

283. Mr. Sullivan was indeed deeply imbued with a conviction of the necessity of this course to the improvement of the country; and previously to the report above quoted, he had, while a member of the council of Fort St. George, recorded a valuable minute in reviewing the Report on Irrigation by Captain A. Cotton, to which we have so often adverted. In that minute, Mr. Sullivan set forth in forcible terms the value of irrigation both to the revenue and to the people; the heavy loss which had been sustained through the long-continued neglect of it by our government, and the very great advantages which the existing government possesses, as compared with former ruling powers, for carrying on such undertakings on a large scale. The whole paper is well deserving of attention, and we print it in Appendix (L.); we quote the concluding paragraphs in this place.*
"53. It was long ago recommended by Colonel De Havilland, an officer of the highest talent and most extensive experience, that this government should not cease in their efforts to improve the irrigation of the country, until they had turned to account all the water which now rolls in volumes to the sea by the rivers which intersect the Peninsula, and he proposed to effect this object by excavating extensive canals, which should serve at once for purposes of irrigation and communication.
" 54. This recommendation has its foundation in the fact that our provinces prosper or decline, according to the supply of water which they receive. Tanjore, Malabar and Canara are liable to all the incidents which affect the welfare of the other districts, with the important exception of water, of which they have always abundance, the former by artificial works, the latter from the natural rains: in them, therefore, famine and all its concomitant evils are unknown, and in point of agricultural wealth they will bear comparison with many parts of Europe. No year passes without our having melancholy experience of the contrast which is afforded by the state of the other districts.
" 56. It is plain, from these facts, that an increased expenditure upon the engineer department would be the sure means of filling the public treasury. I am persuaded, therefore, that the attention of the government cannot be directed to a subject of greater importance ; and that it would be wise, without delay, to investigate it thoroughly, with a view to the undertaking of all such works as promise results equal to what have followed from the construction of the anicuts in Tanjore.
" P.S.óSince the preceding sheets were written the report of the collector of Tinnevelly upon the settlement of that district for Fusly 1848 has been submitted. It appears that the revenue lost in that year from deficiency of water in the Nunjah lands alone was 1,58,471 rupees. This example is of itself sufficient to show how necessary it is to the finances of government that
(Footnote: *This minute is copied verbatim at the end of this pamphlet.)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(54)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
every effort should be made, and made without delay, to put the works of irrigation in the most efficient state, particularly that we should take measures for storing up the water which now runs waste at one season of the year, in order that we may have the means of making up for deficient supplies at other seasons."

Beneficial effects of irrigation
Comparision of districts

284. In concluding our remarks on the general subject of irrigation, we will only add a few considerations as to the national benefit from such works ; and first, we will look at the actual result on a large scale, comparing the province of Tanjore with any other district. The soil of Tanjore is not naturally fertile ; it is a sandy alluvium, and towards the coast especially it contains a great deal of sand. The district contains under 4,000 square miles, and though the assessment is lighter than elsewhere throughout the Presidency, it yields a land revenue of 40 lacs annually, and contains a population of nearly 1,700,000 persons, and that in more wealth and comfort than is to be met with in any other part of the Presidency, except Canara and Malabar.
The district of Chingleput is also on the coast, and the soil not greatly different from that of Tanjore : it is lightly assessed compared with the adjoining districts, and enjoys the great advantage of being close to the large market of Madras. The extent is 3,000 square miles : it is not by any means without irrigation, but is very far inferior in this particular to Tanjore. It yields a revenue of 10 1/2 lacs, and contains a population of 583,460 persons.
Again, take the inland district of Cuddapah, its extent is 13,000 square miles ; but, perhaps, a sixth of this is mountain. The soil generally is good, in some parts very rich, and it is not altogether destitute of the means of irrigation. The land revenue is 21 lacs, and the population is 1,450,000.
The following statement shows the three districts in comparison :ó

TABLE 54 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

These figures cannot be depended on for strict accuracy, but they are sufficiently near the truth to afford a fair comparison. It is seen that Tanjore yields a revenue for every square mile of its surface, nearly three times as large as Chingleput (which is itself a favoured district), and more than five times as large as Cuddapah, while it maintains a population nearly two and a half times as dense as that of Chingleput, and four times as dense as that of Cuddapah ; and the larger revenue is paid with more

---------------------------------------------------------------------------(55)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ease in Tanjore than the much smaller revenue of the other two districts, and leaves far more to the people. This superiority of Tanjore can be ascribed mainly only to one cause, viz., that capital to a vast amount has been, in the course of ages, invested in it, in bringing water to irrigate its lands.

Such under-takings benefit both the Government and the people;

285. And such investment of capital cannot but be profitable both to the government and to the cultivator of the soil. We have seen above that on the average of a considerable number of works, costing on the whole about 5 1/2 lacs of rupees, the clear annual return of revenue to government has been 71 per cent. on the outlay. But we will suppose that the return in revenue is much smaller, that it is no more than 25 per cent. on the outlay (and there is a vast field for the expenditure of money on the formation of works which would pay more than that), even on this supposition the profit is very great. It may safely be assumed that for every rupee of revenue paid to government the total value produced is not less than 2 1/2 rupees; therefore an increase of revenue to the amount of 25 per cent. represents an increase of produce : in other words, an addition to the national wealth to the amount of 62 1/2 per cent. on the outlay. Now, when it is remembered that of the total area of the Madras territories only one-filth is cultivated ; that of the whole cultivation only one-fourth is irrigated ; that millions of acres of good land require only water to make them richly productive; and that immense volumes of water which might be turned to this use now flow to waste into the sea; when these facts are considered some idea may be formed of the vast extent of that field of improvement which is before us.

Largely add to  the revenue;

286. It is universally allowed to be judicious in a landlord in England to lay out money in draining, or otherwise improving his property, if he can get a proportionate increase of rent ; and those landlords are looked upon as wise and prudent who even borrow money at five per cent. to expend on such improvements, when there is a reasonable probability that the outlay will return eight or ten per cent. Now, in this Presidency the government are in the position of landlord as regards the irrigation works ; they and they only in general can undertake the construction of such works,* and there are vast numbers of undertakings, to a large amount, which would return, not 10 per cent., but 30, 50 and even 100 per cent. directly into the treasury, besides a vast addition to the comfort and wealth of the community, in advancing whose prosperity the government has an interest (not here to speak of the duty), which does not exist in the case of the English landlord.

And multiply the produce and the value of land

287. Again, at a very moderate computation, irrigation quadruples the produce and the value of land; and thud though acre for acre somewhat more labour is required, yet food is raised at

(Footnote: *I.e, they must be constructed by the government or company duly authorized, as the ryotwars cannot in their present state afford to make them.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(56)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
less cost of labour, and a larger fund is left, after paying the cost of production, to be expended on other articles of comfort and convenience besides food. Then the comfort of the people at large increases, new wants spring up which were unknown before, and new branches of industry arise to minister to those wants. Thus a market is created for the surplus produce, and the producer and the consumer mutually profit by each other's prosperity ; and this process can go on to an unlimited extent, for the power of consumption is limited only by that of production, the necessary conditions being that the producers of all kinds shall be placed within reach of the consumer by good communications, and that labour shall be free. Thus capital accumulates, and with the accumulation of capital come the love of peace and order, activity of invention, the cultivation and enlargement of the mind, the fine arts, and, in a word, civilization.

Irrigation tends to prevent famines

288. But in speaking of the benefits of extending irrigation, we must not omit to notice its efficacy in preventing famines. We have already pointed out the happy peculiarity of the peninsula of India, that all its principal rivers have their sources under the influence of the south-west monsoon, which never fails ; and so their waters, if duly turned to account, afford the means of preventing those distressing scarcities which would otherwise arise from the frequent, entire or partial failure of the more uncertain north-east monsoon. In such times of dearth the irrigated districts are not only comparatively exempt from distress themselves, but are the resource of all the country around. The drought of 1833 affected in some degree all the districts east of the Ghauts, though not with the same violence in all ; and thousands of persons in that year, as well as in the scarcity of 1824, left their homes and their lands in the neighbouring districts of Salem, Coimbatore and the inland parts of South Arcot and Madura, and even North Arcot, and betook themselves with their families to Tanjore and Trichinopoly. There they remained for years, and many, probably, have not yet returned to their own villages; and the benefits of the abundance there might have been extended to far greater numbers, but for the badness of the roads. People were dying by the road-side in hundreds in Salem and Coimbatore districts, of sheer destitution, while the price of grain was not nearly doubled in Tanjore, and yet it could not be conveyed to the relief of those districts because of the cost of transit.
The late famine in Guntoor
289. But it was in Guntoor that the effects of that terrible season were most severe; and though that time has long passed away, and the district is recovering from its effect, it will not be uninstructive to consider briefly what those effects have been on the wealth and happiness of the province, and the revenue of the government.
The district of Guntoor lies on the south bank of the Kistnah River ; its extreme breadth north and south is about 80 miles, and its greatest length east and west about 116 milts, and it contains

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(57)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
an area of 4,700 square miles. One-fourth of the surface may be taken as hill and jungle, one-fourth as sand and poor soil, while the remaining half is extremely rich land; being situated on the confines of both monsoons, this district receives a full supply of water from neither; but on the other hand its soil is of such a nature as to require less moisture than ordinary. The supply of water generally during the dry season is scanty, even for domestic purposes, while in a large part of the district (viz, in the rich black cotton soil) wells are useless, as the water is brackish and undrinkable. The gradual slope of the country from an elevated centre is favourable to the construction of tanks for irrigation, and the large number of ruined tanks in all parts of the country indicate that formerly the extent of irrigated land was considerable ; at present it is only four per cent. of the total cultivation. Till within the last eight years the district was almost wholly under large zemindars, and the destruction 
of the tanks is owing to the neglect by those proprietors.

Vast destruction of life

290. In 1832 the north-east monsoon failed throughout the whole Presidency ; but the failure was felt with most severity in Guntoor, where it produced all the calamities of famine. The population returns of the district for a period of years are given in the margin, as obtained from the collector. In Fusly 1241 (1831-32), the population was 512,000 ; in the following year it was only 357,038, and in 1833-34 it fell to 255,511, being less than half what it was two years previously. Many people left the district during the prevalence of the famine, and removed to the coast districts and to the Presidency; but making every allowance for this, it appears certain that the number of those who perished by starvation, and by the fever which followed the famine, was not less than 200,000. After that period of calamity had passed away, the people who had left the district mostly returned; and the population has gradually risen. In Fusly 1258, it was 487,172, according to the returns ; in 1259 there was no census, probably because a very accurate one was intended in

	TABLE 57 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(58)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the following year; and in Fusly 1260 (1850-51), the returns, taken with very unusual care, gave a result of 569,968. Thus, assuming the returns throughout to be correct, the population has recovered, and is now above what it was before the famine ; but these premises are unsound, as the population returns were certainly far less complete formerly than now. Prior to Fusly 1256 (1847), very little care was bestowed on them, and, as a matter of course, they were below the truth; in that year the collector gave them more attention, and the result was an addition of 18 per cent. to the numbers of the preceding year. In 1851 a very careful census was taken under orders from the government of India, and the result is an increase of 17 per cent. on the returns of 1849, and this, although the intervening period was one of severe agricultural distress and high prices of grain. It appears certain, therefore, that the increase shown in the statement is in part only apparent, and results from the returns for the earlier years of the series being incomplete ; and it seems a safe conclusion, that even now, after the lapse of 19 years, the population of Guntoor has still not recovered from the destructive effects of the visitation of 1832 and 1833.

Of revenue in all branches

291. The loss of revenue, and the destruction of property, were immense. Appendix (U.) is a statement of all items of revenue in each year from Fusly 1236 to Fusly 1259. First, to take the land revenue : the average collections in the six years preceding Fusly 1242 were 13,94,168 rupees ; in that year they fell to 6,58,500 rupees, and in the following two years they were 6,71,654 rupees,* and 5,11,593 rupees respectively ; since that time they have gradually increased, but the average annual amount up to Fusly 1260 is only 9,86,284 rupees, being a loss of 4,07,884 rupees yearly, or of 77,49,796 rupees on the whole. Even this statement does not fairly present the whole case ; for all the zemindaries having fallen hopelessly into arrears, the whole of them were taken under management in Fusly 1245, and since that time the government collections include all that part of the total or gross collections which formerly went as income to the zeinindar, and in payment of his establishments.

It is singular to observe how uniform the falling off was in all branches of the revenue. In the Sayer (see Appendix. U.) it was very marked, as was to be expected; the ,average of the six years preceding Fusly 1242 was 1,01,438 rupees ; in that year it fell to 64,554, and in the following year to 45,707 ; in salt, the falling off was from 3,85,000 in Fusly 1241, to 1,60,000 in Fusly 1242 ; in Moturpha, from 63,000 in 1241 to 23,200 in 1242, and 26,000 in 1243 ; in Abkary, from 13,232 in Fusly 1241, to 12,341 in Fusly 1242, and 4,808 in 1243 ; in "sundry

(Footnote: * In Fasly 1243, the sum of 3,02,978 rupees was realized at Madras by the sale of bonds belonging to Zemindars; this is omitted in the statement of collections, because not derived from the resources of the year.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(59)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

small farms," from 13,779 in Fusly 1241, to 9,556 and 4,484 respectively in the following two years. In some branches the revenue has never recovered itself, but is still below its former standard ; salt regained its normal amount the soonest, that is, in about ten years, being less dependent than the others on the local consumption ; it has indeed increased materially above what it was before the famine ; this is probably owing to a more vigorous management. The average yearly loss on all these sources of revenue as compared with the six years preceding the famine, is 1,02,784 ; and the aggregate loss in the 18 years (after deducting 3,18,000 rupees as the probable amount of the deficit through the abolition of the Sayer duties in 1844) amounts to 15,32,112 rupees.

And of private property

292. It is difficult to estimate the actual loss to the zemindars  and the cultivating classes ; but an approximate judgment may be formed. According to the theory of the settlement, the zemindars were to have 30 per cent. of the gross collections from the ryots; and thus supposing them to have taken from the ryot half the gross produce of the soil (an outside estimate), the government revenue would be 35 per cent. of the gross produce. Considering that during the period of distress the ryots certainly paid to the zemindars, and they to government, a larger proportion than usual of their actual income respectively, it might be safely assumed that the loss was in the proportion above given ; but we will take the loss of the zemindars and the ryots at only 60 per cent. of the whole, instead of 65, and then the total loss to government, zemindar and ryot, from diminished cultivation and failure of crop, will amount to 1,93,75,000 rupees.
Add to this 18 lacs, the value of cattle and sheep that perished in the famine, and 15,32,112 rupees, the amount lost to government as above stated, in the miscellaneous items of revenue (without attempting to compute the loss to individuals in the various branches of trade and manufacture concerned), and the total loss by the famine, up to the present time, is found to amount to the enormous sum of 2,27,07,000 rupees, or above two and a quarter millions sterling.*

The Kistnah anicut to prevent such another famine
 
293. The prevention of the famine would therefore have been well worth an outlay of 200 lacs of rupees ; and looking at the government share of the loss only, it would have been worth an expenditure of 85 lacs. It was partly with a view to such prevention that the government recommended, and the honourable court sanctioned, the construction of an anicut across the Kistnah at Beizwarah, with a system of irrigation channels on both
(Footnote: *The statistics of Guntoor in Para. 289, are taken from some details of the famine in the Madras Journal of Literature, No. 30, for June, 1844, and from the Report of the Guntoor Survey by Mr. Walter Elliot, Commissioner, 18th December, 1845. The details of the revenue and population were procured from the collector.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(60)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
sides of the river, viz. in both Guntoor and Masulipatam districts. The whole cost of the works is estimated at fifteen and a half lacs of rupees, and the annual return in the shape of revenue, as computed by the committee appointed to consider the project, is 7,32,059 rupees, or 48 per cent.; and even the government express their opinion, that, at the least, the permanent annual gain to the revenue will not fall short of 30 per cent.; far from being a sacrifice, therefore, this project is an investment of capital most profitable to the government ; it will likewise create a vast amount of private wealth, and it may be regarded as certain to prevent the recurrence in Guntoor of such a calamity as we have been noticing; for though it will not entirely obviate the effects of so disastrous a season as that of Fusly 1242, it will greatly moderate them, and reduce them from the horrors of a famine to the mere distress of a scarcity.

					SECTION VIII.
Proposed Scheme of Expenditure on Works of Irrigation and Communication.

We now proceed, according to our plan already announced, to state the amount which a careful consideration of the circumstances of the country leads us to propose for the annual expenditure both on works of irrigation and on roads.

Proposed expenditure in maintaining the works of irrigation.

463. We will first consider the amount proper to be annually devoted to the maintenance and improvement of irrigation works. The revenue actually received by government from land irrigated by the government works amounts to 135 lacs of rupees yearly; and that alienated in the form of land situated under government irrigation woas, granted on rent-free tenure, the irrigation of which the government is bound to maintain as much as if the revenue were actually payable to itself, may be taken at about 15 lacs, making a total of 150 lacs yearly; and it seems unquestionable that if the existing works were kept in full efficiency, the revenue from them would be materially higher. The sum now expended annually on their repair and maintenance is about seven lacs of rupees; but this is certainly too little now. It would probably be sufficient if the works were once brought into good order; but notoriously, and on the evidence adduced above, they are in general much out of repair, and a considerable expenditure is
required to bring them to a proper point of efficiency, so as to yield a maximum return. Supposing it to be resolved, as on every account we trust it will be, that the works are to be efficiently repaired, the question as to the amount to be annually expended on that object is one of time as to the results, and of capalfility of spending the money to advantage. Looking at the whole subject, considering the other works to be undertaken, the means of superintendence likely to be available, and the quantity of labour to be obtained, we would propose

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(61)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lacs yearly as the usual expenditure in maintaining existing works, and bringing them into an efficient condition, including the furnishing them with proper sluices and calingulahs, improving their sources of supply, and other minor and ordinary improvements.

Fifteen lacs of rupees steadily laid out every year on these objects, under able and judicious direction, would soon produce a marked effect. On the one hand the revenue from the works would increase; and on the other the works thus put in good order would require very little annual repair, and the charge on that account would thus progressively decrease. This proposed expenditure would be 10 per cent. on the present revenue from irrigation; but this rate would be gradually reduced as the effect of the improvement became apparent, and as the whole number of works in efficient repair became larger year by year; and when all shall have been brought into that condition, the cost of keeping them in order will be much less.

Proposed expenditure in extending irrigation by new works.

466. We propose then that 15 lacs a year should be devoted to the restoration and maintenance of the existing works ; and the next question is, what sum should be applied to the formation of new works ; for, on every account, irrigation ought to be extended. And this question again involves the same considerations as the former one ; viz., that of time as to the results and of the means of laying out money to advantage. There is no want of profitable projects to be undertaken ; we have mentioned a few, but they do not by any means constitute the whole or even perhaps the most important. In every district there are favourable openings for such undertakings, and they will be brought forward rapidly as soon as officers shall be available for the important duty of investigation, and the government shall manifest a disposition to receive such proposals with favour. Looking at the same considerations as in the former case, we would propose that at least seven-and-a-half lacs annually should be devoted to the object
of extending the benefits of irrigation ; but while proposing this as the usual annual expenditure, we must express our opinion that it would be inexpedient to adhere to the limit too rigidly ; latitude should be allowed when any important projects are brought forward, and when there appears reason to believe that more works can be executed. Nothing is gained in such cases by delay, it is only postponing the results, which, on the contrary, ought to be realized as soon as possible. It will be desirable, also, that to a certain extent, at least, the unexpended allowance of one year should be considered as available for succeeding years. This is necessary, indeed, to prevent confusion ; it is impossible to determine precisely, beforehand, how much will be spent in any given year out of the amount sanctioned.

467. Thus the whole ordinary and usual sum proposed to be spent yearly on works of irrigation is 22 1/2 lacs of rupees.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(62)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Navigable canals might be constructed very cheaply on some lines

491. As to canals, we have already declared our opinion that, on the coast lines, canals of a capacity suited to steam navigation would be by far the best and cheapest species of communication ; the cost of construction would be wonderfully little, and, from the almost entire absence of locks, the navigation would be liable to very little impediment ; and the cost of carriage on such canals would be not only far less than on common roads, but much lower than anything that has been thought of for railways. On the Cochrane Canal, firewood, the chief commodity carried, and which requires no shelter, is conveyed at the rate of three pies a mile a too, and this would certainly be reduced by better arrangements, and if the canal were in better repair ; Major Pears proposes a rate of an anna a mile for the railway, and it is not likely that it will be under half an anna or six piee. In the interior there may be other lines on which canals may be beneficially made, often in combination with irrigation. Here also the 
agency of private enterprise might be called in, as above suggested in the case of railways. We may add, that the canal just mentioned, the only one now existing under this Presidency that is regularly used for navigation, was formed by a private individual, and on the terms there suggested. It was planned on the part of government, and was then given for execution to Mr. Basil Cochrane, who was to enjoy the whole proceeds for 45 years, and then to surrender the canal to government ; his interest in it was, in fact, bought by the government while the term of his contract had still some years to run.

The want of officers
No science in the construction of old the native works;

511. We now proceed to consider the number of officers required in the various grades. We have shoen in another part of our report that the prosperity of the Presidency of Madras is in a great degree dependent on its works of irrigation, and that those works are more or less dilapidated throughout the country; we will now examine how far this evil depends upon the insufficient number of engineers. There can be no doubt that if money is withheld, any number of engineers can do nothing to restore the Nunjah cultivation to what at one time or other it evidently has been ; but, on the other band, the means, however liberally supplied, could not effect the end desired, unless judiciously and skilfully expended. It may be objected that the ancient works were constructed without the aid of science, and such was the case ; but the result was, that though the object in view was in many cases effected, it was so at an excessive cost. Vast numbers of the great works of former times which pay us well the cost of keeping in repair, would never repay the capital laid out by their projectors ; they were built by forced labour, and, for their strength, depend entirely on the quantity of material used. Such is the great Darojle tank in Bellary, to repair a single accidental breach in which, and secure it from future injury, was last year estimated to cost five times its annual

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(63)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
revenue. The object in view in the original construction of this work might have been effected at a moderate expense, and such as would have yielded a profitable return ; but its actual cost must have been out of all proportion to its value.

And hence many of them were built at ruinous cost.

512. Were it not for the science employed on them lately, many of the works that we now see in operation would have been out of use like numbers of others which have not had that advantage, in proof of which we may instance many of the most valuable channels in Tanjore, Trichinopoly and South Arcot. Numbers of the most costly works were too expensive even for the rulers of the country to complete, with all their people's labour, and never were perfected in consequence. Such was the great work begun by a native prince at Nerinjapett, where, on a rocky bed, an anicut was thrown across the Cauvery, at a cost incalculably greater than that of those anicuts which science has enabled us to raise on the same river in places where the bed is of the loosest sand, without a rock in any part of it to aid the engineer. The dam at Nerinjapett, after being raised to its intended height, was partially destroyed, and was abandoned as a hopeless undertaking : and from that day to this the portion that remains has not been used, although the anicut as it stands at present might even now be applied to water a whole talook in the Salem district, if a scientific officer could give his time to laying out the channels. Numberless ancient native works have been ruined, and must remain in ruins, because they were misplaced or faulty in construction, and many more have had their value increased by modern engineering. In our own time we have seen the waste of money by the native management reduced to a comparative trifle by the improvement of the Civil Engineer department ; and we need no further proof that it would be bad economy to work with any but the best trained engineers procurable.

The want of officers has long been admitted.

513. The Civil Engineer department is looked to as the means of improving and extending irrigation, and it has already effected not a little, considering the small means placed at its disposal ; but everywhere we find statements made of the insufficient strength of the establishment. And as this has been admitted by all concerned, by the civil engineers, by the Board of Revenue, by the government under Lord Tweeddale, and by the Honourable Court itself, it would seem hardly necessary for us to write upon the subject now : but when we see that what has been universally allowed as an essential want of greater or less extent, for the last fifteen years, has only been nominally supplied by an addition of six subalterns to the engineer corps, we must take up the subject once again, and treat it as if it had never been understood. In a former part of this report we have already touched lightly upon the general duties of the Maramut department : we will not repeat what we have said, but in as few words as possible give such an account of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(64)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
operations in a civil engineer's camp as will show what the country has to depend upon for the management and improvement of its public works.

The duties required of a civil engineer.

514. The civil engineers have had no instructions to bring forward projects of improvement, since orders to the contrary were issued ; but collectors of districts are anxious to make the best of the countries under their management, and the civil engineers working in concert with them, and having the same wish to benefit their divisions, rarely hesitate to offer their suggestions for adding to the prosperity of the country by public works. They do consider themselves as having that responsibility ; and many have made it, as others would if they had more time to devote to it, one great object of their labours. Their first duty, as their orders now stand, is to supervise all expenditure in the repair of public works, to inspect them personally, and check, by actual measurement, as many as they can ; to examine any that are said to need repair, and to estimate for what may be required, there being certain descriptions of work which cannot be executed unless personally reported upon either by an engineer or a surveyor of the department, such being the condition on which the government sanction for the work is given. And of late years this condition has frequently been annexed in the case of estimates of very small amount, such as for the building of a bungalow or a police cutcherry, which were not to be commenced till the excavation for the foundation had been seen by one of the department. It is no less the duty of the civil engineer to inspect or ascertain, in any way he can, the condition of the works of irrigation, so that he may avert as well as remedy the damage they are liable to. The latter duty is indeed of paramount importance, as on it, in a great degree, depends the cost of keeping the works in repair. The general control over all the works of irrigation has to be carried on in immediate communication with the collectors of districts and the Board of Revenue. No work, however small, can be done without a detailed estimate, made either by the Revenue establishment or by that of the civil engineer, and all estimates, by whomsoever prepared, have to be examined and attested by the civil engineer himself. With the works of communication the case is similar, except that there being no direct revenue dependent upon them, they have not, in the same degree, been considered the special objects of the civil engineer's attention. All estimates, and bills for work connected with them, however, in like manner, have to pass through his office for examination and check. All plans for bridges have to be made by the engineers, as have also all considerable estimates for roads and ghauts, the latter, in some parts of the country, being a most important item in the labour of the year. All civil, ecclesiastical and military buildings, as well as those under charge of the Marine department, are in like manner under the civil engineer's

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(65)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
supervision. A diary in detail of all the proceedings of each day has to he sent in once a month by the officers of the department, besides a number of periodical statements.

 Extent of his office work.

515. The actual amount of office work that all this entails cannot be clearly shown, but it may be inferred to be large, from the fact that, in the year 1850, above 5,000 estimates were forwarded to the board, together with the plans for all the new works. Bills to about the same number were sent in ; and in all cases of the bill exceeding the estimate by five per cent., explanations were required and given. The amount of correspondence, extending to the most minute matters, fills the records of the department, and adds very greatly to its labour. This is all that can be said, in a small compass, to give an idea of the office work in the Civil Engineer's department, an amount of labour which would be considered heavy, if the establishment were stationary, instead of being almost constantly in motion, as is the case with the civil engineers' camps in general. With this amount of office work, and a camp moving at the utmost 10 miles a day throughout the year, it may be imagined how little 25 officers of engineers, with their 25 surveyors, can do to watch, repair or improve the 70,000 tanks and channels existing in the Ryotwar districts of the Madras Presidency, even if they had not the roads, ghauts and buildings to attend to ; and we must explain what amount of engineering these 70,000 "works," so called, require.

All tanks constantly require more or less of his attention

516. A great portion are small tanks, the treatment of which  con-is simple enough ; hut which, if left to themselves, are constantly injured, and their repair has ever caused the chief ordinary expenditure of the year. Mismanaged, neglected, or left for a time unseen by any but the talook servants, they gradually deteriorate, till a sudden fall of rain destroys them, and they have to be rebuilt. Many thousand are tanks of a larger description, having an area of from two to four square miles of surface, which have not only to be guarded against the effects of waves and rain, but require careful attention to secure their having a good supply of water.

Danger from works being insecure

This class of works, as may be supposed, requires the attention of officers of experience, and should be constantly under the eye of the civil engineer. Other tanks are still larger, perfect lakes indeed in extent, covering from 4 to 12 square miles. These have large channels for supply, and works of masonry of great size; and on their safety depend lives and property to a vast amount. In the year 1836, when the North Arcot and Chingleput district were visited by a most violent storm, the town of Madras had the narrowest escape of a frightful visitation from the Cauverypauk tank not being in a secure state. When the gale ceased, it was found that the waves had been thrown over the bund where the water was deepest, and the embankment had been so nearly cut through, that, but for a sudden change in the
E

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(66)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
wind, it would have been destroyed. The breadth of soil left at the top was only half a yard. A few minutes would have washed that away, when the whole contents of the enormous tank, not less than 12 miles in circumference, and in parts 25 feet in depth, would have flowed through 70 miles of country, carrying with it the large tank of Chembrumbaukum, and numberless smaller ones ; and their whole accumulated waters would have fallen into the Cooum and Adayar, at that time far above their banks, and already causing great damage in Madras. To report upon the condition of the Cauverypauk bund, it was necessary to send up an officer not belonging to the division, and engaged on other duty at Madras, the civil engineer being too far distant. Had the accident occurred, the ruins of a great portion of Madras would have shown to the government how bad is the policy of leaving the charge of such works to the management of a department admitted by all to be altogether insufficient in numbers.

Extensive losses from that cause occur almost every year.

517. Nor is it always such large and conspicuous works as this which lead to ruinous losses. As tanks are always formed in valleys, they are often in continuous lines, following the natural course of streams, so that the surplus water of one flows into and indeed is the main source of supply to those below it. The danger resulting from this will he clear to every one: the calingulah or outlet for the surplus being a more or less expensive kind of work, is usually made sufficient to discharge the drainage of the valley, and no more, as when all the tanks are in repair nothing further is required of it; but in case of an accident happening to one of the upper works, its water is poured suddenly into that below, the bund of which is destroyed by the flood, and the accumulating waters sweep away all before them, tanks, crops, and not unfrequently villages, with their cattle, and even people. Such was the case in Cuddapah, some years ago, when 16 fine works were swept away in a single valley ; the first work that failed being one so small, that nothing but the accident it caused would have then led the officers, who had a thousand others to attend to, to visit and examine it. This year such a flood has happened in several places : indeed it would hardly be too much to say that not a season passes without one or more cases of the kind; and the origin of the accident is often the want of care in some one village, where the bund has not been looked to, and perhaps a cattle track across it has worn away the earth, and let the water over. In many instances a single cubic yard of earth would have averted the ruin. A small sum spent judiciously would have saved lacs of money lost to the government in revenue and repairs, and the people of the valley from the loss of all their crops. That much of this results from apathy in the inhabitants and talook servants there is no doubt ; but having, as matters stand, no better guardians of the public works, a constant watchfulness is

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(67)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

quite as necessary in the engineer department to save the tanks entrusted to its care, as skill in managing their repair when damaged.
The channels.

Instance of the Calingaroyen Channel

518. Another class of works consists of channels, of which there are very many thousand in the country. Each channel in this list is called "a work," though it is in some cases a system of several hundred separate works, dams, regulating sluices, calingulahs, and sluices for the distribution of its water. There are numbers of these channels, on which it would answer to have the engineer entirely occupied with a single channel only, rather than that it should be left to the thousandth part of his attention, as is the case at present. We may instance one of the channels of Coimbatore, the Calingaroyen. This channel is 52 miles in length, and depends for its supply upon a rough stone dam between 20 and 30 feet in height. It has a number of calingulahs and sluices to carry off its surplus water where the drainage of the country crosses it, and its water is distributed by 2,000 tunnels in its bank. The extent of cultivation dependent upon it is 8,000 acres ; and the value of the crops of one year to the government and the people is little less than two and a half lacs of rupees. There is no part of this channel that does not require some skilful treatment. The anicut, during a part of the year, does not supply it as it might ; at other seasons, when water is scarce at the lower end of the channel, it is necessary, in consequence of the insecure state of the bank, to allow a great portion of the stream which enters it to be discharged by the surplus sluices ; and there is not one of all the 2,000 outlets for the distribution of the water, which does not cause a waste in its expenditure of water very greatly above what is necessary. The irrigation from this fine work ends in an open and well-peopled country, the further portion of which, now without irrigation, only wants water, to be as fertile as the lands which it already reaches ; much of the latter land yields to government a revenue of 30 rupees an acre, being more than 10 times what is paid by the former or unirrigated lands. There cannot be a doubt that on such a work as this there is full occupation for an engineer of the best experience. This, it is true, is one above the average in importance, but it is by no means one in the worst condition. We select it as an instance, because we have the facts regarding it at hand. There are numberless other works, both tanks and channels, each of which would in like manner repay the government the cost of an engineer, with no other occupation than to make the most of it.

Other instances.

519. In his report Colonel Cotton mentions two cases of serious loss from the want of engineer officers. The aggregate direct loss to government in revenue in the two cases, before the mischief was corrected, was more than 27 lacs of rupees, though it cost only one lac and three quarters to make the necessary repairs and restore the revenue, as soon as engineer officers could

E2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------(68)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
be spared for the work. Nor was the large sacrifice of revenue by any means the whole evil of this neglect. To the owners and cultivators of the soil it brought impoverishment and ruin, as is vividly described in para.19 of the same paper.

The Tadapully Channel

The Tadapully Channel in Coimbatore may also be quoted. In speaking of that channel, in his diary for September, 1850, the Civil Engineer of the 7th Division thus expresses himself:ó" To give some idea of the loss that may result from a bad system of management in such a channel, I find from the accounts brought forward by Kistnah that, from the year 1811 to 1848, there was a loss of about 9,00,000 rupees, taking the revenue of the year 1809 as the standard of what might have been collected from first to last, which the collections of late years have proved to be no greater than might have been received annually." Had a civil engineer been in charge of this channel alone for the whole of the last 40 years, with 1,000 rupees a month, the government would have saved four lacs out of the nine, and the cultivators would have been at least 12 lacs the richer for it. But had this been the case, not only would the actual loss now spoken of have been saved, but the water might have been turned to so much better account that it would have been carried on to new lands, capable of producing half as much again, both to the people and to the government, as it produced last year, and estimates for effecting this are now under preparation. In giving this instance, and pointing out how well even 1,000 rupees monthly might have been spent upon the management of this channel, we must not be understood to say that so large an outlay was required ; we only wish to show that even such extravagant expenditure would have been far better policy than the so-called good economy of the present system of no management.

The Ponnairy tank
520. Another instance may be quoted in the Ponnairy tank. This tank in the Trichinopoly district, now in ruins for many years, is on a gigantic scale. The bund is 26 miles in length and of great height, furnished with two sluices of substantial masonry, and still in good preservation; it was supplied with water from the Coleroon river by a channel 62 miles in length, as well as by a smaller channel from the Vellour. The whole of the country once fertilized by this stupendous work is now waste, and in great part covered with thick jungle, except a few poor villages scattered here and there, with a limited extent of cultivation attached to each. Since 1832 the restoration of this tank has been repeatedly urged on the Board of Revenue by the local officers, and in 1837 the bund and channel were examined sufficiently to ascertain generally the feasibility of the work. The board then directed the civil engineer to make a thorough survey and estimate as soon as he could find leisure ; the present civil engineer, too, has been very anxious to do this, but hitherto, owing to the constant and pressing calls on his attention, he has

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(69)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
been unable to give the necessary time. The collector of Trichinopoly, in writing about this work to the Board of Revenue in 1837, stated that the ryots of the Oodiarpolliem talook had engaged to bring 9,000 cawnies (12,000 acres) of land into rice cultivation if the tank should be restored; that even this extent would yield between 80,000 and 90,000 rupees to government annually, and that it did not nearly approximate to the whole extent of land that would be ultimately reclaimed.

 The Chembrumbaukum tank

To these cases may be added that of the Chembrumbaukum tank in Chingleput district, which has land under it bearing an assessment of 62,000 rupees, besides 10,000 rupees of Enam land. During the five Fuslies, 1255 to 1259, the lowest revenue from the tank was 21,700 rupees, and the highest 47,000 rupees; and this large fluctuation occurred within three years, the former being in Fusly 1256, and the latter in Fusly 1258. The sole cause was want of water, for the channel from the Cortiliar river which formerly supplied the tank had become choked up to the depth of 5 1/2 feet, and the tank was left almost wholly dependent on the local rains. In December, 1850, the civil engineer visited the tank, and made an estimate for clearing out the accumulation ; the work was done in the early months of the following year, at the cost of less than 4,000 rupees, and in three days of rain in May above 5,300,000 cubic yards of water entered the channel ; the value of that quantity for revenue to government being above 5,000 rupees, so that the cost of the repair was much more than repaid in those three days.

The northern districts even more neglected than the Carnatic

521. Similar instances, though not all on so gigantic a scale, might be brought forward in all parts of the country ; but from the reports we have received from the northern districts, there must be even more necessity for the presence of engineers there than in the most neglected parts of the Carnatic. In answer to our questions on the subject, we have a paper from the civil engineer of the 1st division, which is so full of proof of what we are now stating that we are induced to append the whole of it to our report (Appendix C.). It will be seen by that paper that, not only has the East India Company's own territory been allowed to go to ruin, but even a property held in trust for a zemindar has in like manner been most seriously injured by the neglect of its works of irrigation. It does not appear that in those districts the government has withheld the means when asked for; but no applications have been made because there have been no engineers to point out what was wanted ; and now that the necessity for some expenditure on every tank and channel in the country is brought to notice, there are none to plan the works required. Mr. Walter Elliot, the commissioner of these districts, urges that more officers may be sent to him, and the native zemindars have seen enough in the operations on the Godavery and elsewhere in the last few years to beg that they also may in some way or other have the advantage of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(70)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.

services of engineer officers, but none are to be had. The present state of the country and of the department shows the wisdom of the opinion declared by the Court of Directors in their despatch of the 17th December, 1833, in the following words :ó" They attach great importance to all works in the department being placed under the constant personal control of European officers, and they hold it to be an unwise economy to commit the management of expensive and important works to native agents." Since this despatch was written, 18 years' experience, and a loss we cannot calculate, have confirmed the soundness of the view then taken ; and we would add our most urgent recommendation to that so often made by the Board of Revenue (and on one occasion, at least, by the Marquis of Tweeddale), that the paragraph above quoted should no longer remain a dead letter on the records of government.

The roads

522. What actual loss is occasioned by the want of communications throughout the country it is impossible to say, but in the present day, when the value of cheap and rapid transit is so well understood, we need hardly do more than point out, as we have done in another part of our report, the present cost of moving goods and passengers, to show the want of engineering for improved means of locomotion in every part of the country.

We will mention a few undertakings with which our very limited knowledge has made us acquainted, though in doing so we would not be understood as attempting to give a list of all the large undertakings for which openings exist ; that is by no means our intention, as we are very far from having the necessary information

1st. The completion of the channels and other works in connection with the Godavery anicut.
2d. The very extensive channels and works required in connection with the Kistnah anicut. The laying out of all the channels, and the planning of the sluices, calingulahs and other works connected with these two great undertakings, altogether independently of the executive, will call for a large amount of engineering skill. The want of both engineering skill and executive means has delayed, and continues to delay, the completion of the Godavery works, and so to postpone the increase of revenue certain to be derived from them ; and the same causes are likely, under present circumstances, similarly to delay the Kistnah works, though the project long ago received the sanction of the Court of Directors, and has been commenced.
3d. The restoration of the anicut across the Cauvery at Nerinjiput in Salem district.
4th. The restoration of the Ponnairy tank and channel in Trichinopoly district.
5th. The improvement and extension of irrigation from the Toombuddra river in Bellary district.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(71)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6th. Arrangements for turning to use the flood waters of all the large rivers of the Peninsula, including the Cauvery, which now flow almost entirely to waste. This, though here set down as one scheme, comprehends a large number of separate undertakings, each requiring careful examination of extensive tracts of country, but promising a vast and certain increase of wealth and revenue.
7th. The improvement of the principal rivers of the Peninsula, so as to render them navigable; more especially the Godavery, with its several branches, and the Kistnah. We have already adverted, at some length, to the vast benefits to be secured by opening the former river, and the smallness of the outlay by which that object may probably be effected.
8th. The laying out of canals along both the coasts of the Peninsula.
11th. The sewerage of Madras and its suburbs; and in conjunction with that, the provision of a sufficient supply of good water for domestic use. Both these two subjects, so important to the health, and in a measure to the lives, of a population of 700,000 persons, have recently been indefinitely postponed by government, after some inquiry, on the mere ground of expense. But in the present state of knowledge and of public feeling on such questions, it seems impossible that this postponement can be of very long duration.
The works of irrigation
The object of the sixth section was to present as correct a view as we could arrive at, of the present condition of the government irrigation works throughout the country, and to exhibit proofs of the great importance of bestowing more attention on their maintenance and extension. In our endeavours to obtain an accurate idea of the present condition of the works, we much felt the inconvenience of that entire absence of statistical records respecting them, to which we have already adverted. Being destitute of such help, we used the best means that offered of attaining the knowledge aimed at.

Their neglected condition : Paras 234 to 240

658. We first took the amount of annual revenue immediately dependent on those works, being 150 lacs of rupees, and from their capital value thence deduced at a very low estimate to be at least 1,500 lacs of rupees, we inferred that the sum now devoted to their repair and preservation must be too small. And we found this inference confirmed, by the fact that in every district the tanks and channels now water less land than they did formerly, in consequence of having been allowed to fall into disrepair ; and we arrived at the conclusion, that in the 12 chief irrigation districts only, there is land formerly irrigated and productive, but now waste for want of water, which if supplied with water would yield a revenue of 47 1/2  lacs of rupees annually.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(72)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We also quoted the testimony of the civil engineers, being certainly the officers best qualified to give an opinion on the subject, as to the generally neglected state of the works of irrigation. Most of these officers spoke of them as having undergone material improvement in the course of the last 15 years, but as being still very far below their proper point of efficiency ; and in the northern division, where the works have certainly been more entirely neglected than elsewhere, they are even stated to be worse now than they were 20 years ago.

Examples of the benefit of attending to the irrigation.

659. Such being found to be the general condition of the works, we next took the instances of those districts in which more has been done than elsewhere for the improvement of irrigation, and compared the revenue results with the expenditure. And we there found full proof that this course of improvement is highly profitable to the government. The instances taken were Tinnevelly, two talooks of South Arcot, Tanjore and Rajahmundry.

In Tinnevelly District : Para. 241.

In the first-named district no works of magnitude had been undertaken, but attention had been steadily paid, during a period of about 15 years, to the repair and improvement of the existing works, the influence of which on the revenue would naturally be less marked. Yet comparing the revenue from irrigated land during a period prior to the commencement of these operations with what it was during their course, we found that an outlay of three lacs and a quarter of rupees in the fifteen years, had produced a return of nearly 20 lacs.

In South Arcot : Para. 245.

660. The case of the two southern talooks of South Arcot is more striking. These two talooks possessed of a very rich soil were formerly abundantly irrigated from the Coleroon river; but after the accession of the East India Company to the government of the country, they shared in the general neglect of the works of irrigation. The fine channels which watered them were allowed to become choked with deposit; the revenue fell off from three lacs in the time of the Nabob, and two lacs during the earlier period of our rule, to one lac and a quarter; and the people were reduced to poverty and despondence. In 1836, the improvement of the irrigation was taken in hand ; the channels were cleared out, and an anicut was erected across the river to fill them. The revenue and the prosperity of the people immediately revived. The revenue, which in such a case is an excellent criterion of the general welfare, rose till in 10 years it exceeded three lacs ; and though it has fluctuated, under the operation of causes which we have noticed, and which are capable of easy removal, the average amount since the very year when the anicut was constructed, has been 2,37,146 rupees, whereas the average of the 11 years preceding the improvements was only 1,22,065 rupees. The total net gain in revenue in 14 years has been above 18 lacs, in return for an outlay of four and a half lacs ; and the improvement is a permanent one,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(73)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

as only a very trifling yearly expenditure on repairs will be necessary to keep up the revenue at its present high standard.

In Tanjore: Para 252

661. Tanjore is a district which has for ages been largely rrigated from the Cauvery river. Even here too this very essential part of the revenue administration was neglected in the early times of the British government, though not to the same extent as elsewhere ; and here too we found that increased outlay on the works of irrigation, to the amount of nine lacs in 20 years, chiefly on repairs and minor improvements similar to those in Tinnevelly, had returned an increase of revenue to the amount of 26 1/4 lacs, besides an addition of wealth to the Merasdars and occupiers of the soil, to the amount of about 79 lacs. In further illustration of the effects of irrigation on the prosperity of Tanjore, we quoted two striking passages from Colonel A. Cotton's report on the then proposed irrigation of Rajahmundry, in which be contrasted the state of the former province possessing irrigation, with that of the latter without it. Those extracts are well worth attention.

In Rajahmundry: Para 270

662. The last instance which we gave of the powerful influence of irrigation to augment alike the government revenue, and the prosperity of the people, in other words to create wealth, was that of Rajahmundry. That district, with a part of Masulipatam, forms the delta of the Godavery river. It had long been possessed of partial irrigation; but the channels by which the water of the river was to be conveyed to the land, had been more entirely neglected under our government than even the works in other parts of the country. And this cause, added to the decline of the trade in piece goods, of which formerly the district had a large share, had acted fatally on the prosperity of the province. Commerce was stagnant, the revenue was falling off, the population was decreasing by emigration to more favoured regions, and the people who remained were apathetic and hopeless.
It was under such circumstances that Colonel (then Captain) A. Cotton brought forward in 1844 his proposal for an anicut across the Godavery, with a system of channels for distributing the water over the district ; it was approved by the Honourable Court, and shortly put in course of execution. We have given in its proper place a somewhat lengthened notice to this undertaking; we will here only briefly state the results. The works commenced early in 1847, and up to the present time about 13 lacs of rupees have been expended ; the total ultimate cost is estimated at 24 lacs. Such was the combined effect of the circulation of capital, the employment for labour and the supply of water, that in every year since the works began the increased revenue above that collected previously, has exceeded the amount expended on the works ; and at the end of the year 1850-51, the aggregate of such gain was 19 1/2 lacs, while the expenditure was under 13 lacs; so that the government were in fact never at all out of pocket by
the works. And the change

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(74)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
in the condition and demeanour of the people is stated to be not less gratifying; industry and cheerful activity having taken the place of the former apathy and despondence. And the future prospects of the undertaking are still more promising : looking to the extent of land capable of irrigation, it seems reasonable to expect that at a very moderate rate of assessment, the  works will ultimately yield in revenue a net return of cent. per cent. upon their cost; while the wealth of the people will be enormously increased.

Results of all the improvements undertaken : Para. 271.

663. As an additional instance of the great importance of irrigation as it respects the revenue, we quoted Appendix (Z.), being a statement of all the expenditure by government for a series of years in extending irrigation, together with the results. It appears that the whole outlay for the extension of irrigation, as distinguished from the repair and maintenance of existing works, during the 14 years included in that statement, was 5,41,116 rupees; and the total average net yearly gain in revenue, after deducting the cost of current repair, was no less than 3,76,797 rupees, being 69 1/2 per cent. on the outlay. And this is not the return from selected successful works, but from the whole of those undertaken, including a very few which from particular causes gave no return. Looking at the very small amount of expenditure shown in that table, and comparing it with the vast number of works scattered all over the country, the creation of former dynasties, we could not avoid the reflection that if the present powers had always ruled in the country, it would now have been destitute of those valuable sources of wealth.

The ill effects of neglecting the irrigation : Para. 276.

664. Having given these instances to show the great advantage of maintaining and extending irrigation, we offered a few remarks as to the loss sustained by the government, as well as inflicted on the ryot, when the works on which the revenue of the one and the very livelihood of the other, so much depend, are allowed to fall into decay. We then quoted in support of our views of the importance of irrigation, the recorded sentiments of two gentlemen who, both from their talents and their position, had peculiar facilities for judging on this question ; viz., Mr. J. Sullivan and Mr. C. R. Cotton. And after a few reflections on the same general topic, we adverted to the immense value of irrigation in another aspect ; viz., for the prevention of the destructive famines which prevail periodically in many parts of the country, where advantage is not taken of those means of guarding against them so bountifully afforded by Providence.

Notice of the famine in Guntoor : Para. 288.

665. To enforce this lesson, we dwelt on the effects of the famine in Guntoor in 1832. We found reason to believe that of the population of that district, amounting to 512,000 immediately before the famine, no fewer than .200,000 perished by that visitation and the consequent disease : besides multitudes more who forsook their homes, and fled to other parts of the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(75)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
country ; and that even yet the population of the district has not fully recovered itself. We calculated also that the direct loss of revenue to government in consequence of the famine, has been very little less than 93 lacs of rupees ; while the losses of the zemindars and of the ryots, even leaving out of calculation those of the trading and manufacturing classes, have amounted to 124 lacs ; making a total of above two and a quarter millions sterling. And all this enormous amount of misery and loss would have been prevented, if the same pains had been taken to turn the Kistnah river to use in irrigation, as was ages ago bestowed upon the Cauvery by the native rulers of the country ; and it may confidently be trusted that when the anicut now at last in course of construction on the former river shall be completed and in operation, such a tremendous calamity can never again occur, in that part of the country at least.

				Concluding Remarks.

Our recommendations are directed to three principal points

693. Having thus briefly recapitulated the contents of our Our report, we will conclude it with a few general remarks. Our chief recommendations may be comprised in a few words ; they are addressed to three main objects, viz., 1st. The past neglect of even the existing works of irrigation, and the high expediency of repairing past omissions, and entering vigorously on the task of both restoring the old works to their highest point of efficiency, and of greatly extending irrigation by new works ; 2nd. The utter want of anything like good roads at present, and the absolute necessity of taking measures without delay to form a general system of internal communications; and 3rd. As an essential means to both those objects, the necessity of very greatly enlarging and improving the engineering establishments, now in all its grades lamentably below the point of true economy, even for the present meagre scale of expenditure.

Irrigation works

Roads

694. In supporting our opinions in favour of an increased expenditure on irrigation works and on roads, we urged facts to prove the value of both, even regarded simply as means of filling the government exchequer. As to the former, we proved that the past expenditure by our government has been decidedly too small, and that the revenue has undoubtedly declined in consequence ; and we brought forward instances to show how the revenue has immediately rallied, conjointly with and as a consequence of the more thriving condition of the ryots, wherever the restoration or formation of works of irrigation has been undertaken on a large scale. As to the roads, we carefully depicted from the best information obtainable, their condition at present ; not only of the cross or country roads, but even of the vast bulk of the most important lines. We showed how this state of the means of communication paralyses commerce and enterprise, and so keeps down the revenue, by impoverishing its sources ; and we gave instances to show how immediate and how powerful is the effect both on the land revenue and on that from the salt monopoly,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(76)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
where some little amount of attention is steadily paid to the improvement of the roads.

Establishments.
		
695. As to establishments, we found that those now existing are utterly insufficient even to direct and control effectively the present expenditure, or duly to attend to the existing works, much more to attempt anything in the way of improvements, without still more neglecting ordinary duties. We found that this truth has been acknowledged for many years past, has been brought to the notice of government and fully recognized there, and has been pressingly represented to the supreme government and to the honourable court, but that still nothing has been done to remedy it. We found also that, of late years at least, a serious and fatal misapprehension has pervaded the government as to the wastefulness of that expenditure which is devoted to what is called " Superintendence," i. e. to the providing of science and skill to plan works and to direct rude labour ; and that a tendency prevails to look upon that work as the cheapest which is effected with the least possible amount of such aid. We combated that opinion opposed as it is to the growing experience of European countries, where, every day, science is applied more and more to even the most homely branches of industry ; and where, year by year, mere labour is more and more superseded by science and skill. And we proposed an establishment much larger indeed than the present one, but not greatly exceeding what has been constantly asked for, even for the present scale of operations, and necessary for that; but yet from the scattered distribution of the work to be attended to now, competent to do much more in the same geographical extent.

The Madras revenue system holds out peculiar inducements to the government to promote irrigation

696. We will now, in conclusion, offer a few remarks on each of these three heads. And first of irrigation. There are two peculiar circumstances attaching to these provinces which must not be overlooked in considering this subject ; of which one, an incident of the revenue system prevailing here, makes it especially the function of the government to undertake such improvements ; while the other, which is a natural circumstance, makes it so eminently remunerative to do so. In other parts of the empire, and in those parts which from their metropolitan connection represent the whole of India in the ideas of many persons, the revenue is fixed and invariable, either in perpetuity or for a term of years; and neither any improvement in the resources of an estate or village, nor any extension of cultivation, entitles government to demand the smallest addition of revenue. Thus government has put it out of its power to take an active part in promoting such improvements in those provinces, except by a special agreement in each case, and with each individual proprietor; but here the case is very different. Throughout by far the greater part of the Madras Presidency the Ryotwar field settlement prevails, under which every acre

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(77)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

of land bears a certain assessment, which is paid in years when the land is cultivated, but not when it is not cultivated, and of which a part is even remitted in the case of irrigated land cultivated, when the water is insufficient to mature the crop. Here then any improvement or extension of irrigation immediately affects the revenue, almost by a natural process; for the former, viz. the improvement of existing works, leads to the cultivation of land under those works, previously waste from want of water; and the latter leads to the conversion of wholly waste land, or land formerly cultivated only with dry crops, into irrigated land; upon which conversion the assessment is increased according to certain rules; and the gain to the ryot being so great, he gladly avails himself of the water supplied, and cheerfully pays the increased demand. And as it is the immemorial custom of the country that the ruling power should thus provide water, and in return levy an increased tax on the land, and as it is so profitable to the ryots, they everywhere desire it, and the arrangements follow almost naturally.

And the climate makes it eminently remunerative to do so

697. And there is a second circumstance almost peculiar to the provinces of Madras, as compared with other parts of India, which enhances the value of irrigation here; a peculiarity not in the revenue system, but in the climate. In Northern India irrigation is valuable during the two or three dry months preceding the rains, to strengthen the crop or even as necessary. to the preservation of some kinds ; but the crops generally are not wholly dependent upon it, and very valuable kinds of produce are raised without it. Here, on the other hand, from the greater heat and aridity of the climate, and the longer duration of the dry season, the most valuable species of produce cannot be raised at all without constant artificial watering, and for the most part those species not so watered are very poor and scanty, while those enjoying irrigation are luxuriant and abundant. Hence it is that there is so great a difference between the value of a crop from irrigated and from unirrigated land ; and that the ryot is so anxious to obtain water, and willingly pays a largely-increased assessment, because his profits are so much augmented by it.

A very wide field is open for such improvements

698. And the field for this species of investment of capital by the government is very far from being fully occupied ; on the contrary, we may say that large as is the number of fine works bequeathed by former governments, those of the very finest and most remunerative class have as yet hardly been commenced upon. We allude to works for turning to account the waters of the high floods of the rivers. In many rivers the waters of the low freshes are already turned to use to some extent, though even here there is still a vast deal to be done. But as respects the high floods scarcely an attempt has been made to preserve them for use; the Cauvery is more largely turned to irrigation than any other river of South India, and nearly the whole water of

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(78)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the low freshes is so used ; but scarcely any part of the high floods. Almost the whole of it flows to waste in the sea; and it is the same with other rivers, the Godavery, the Kistnah, the Polar, the Pennar, and others of inferior magnitude. Here then is a vast field of improvement open : the water which now annually falls into the sea is sufficient to water many times the extent of land now irrigated. It should be stored in reservoirs to be constructed in favourable situations all over the country ; reservoirs such as the tanks of Cauveripauk, Chumbrumbaukum, Cumbum, Veeranum and Cunnigherry, described in a former part of this Report, and even on a larger scale, and be drawn off as required. And not only will these works supply irrigation, they will also furnish extended lines of water carriage, ramifying over the whole country. Many years ago, the able engineer, Colonel De Havilland, expressed the opinion that our efforts should not cease till the whole of the waters of the rivers of the peninsula were
turned to this use ; but during the long period that has elapsed since that sentiment was uttered, scarcely anything has been done towards effecting the object proposed.

It is to be hoped that the liberal policy followed in North India will be imitated here

699. And as it is shown that this species of enterprise is so profitable to the government, and so productive of wealth and comfort to the people, such a means in short of advancing civilization, and as such numerous and splendid openings for such undertakings exist, we indulge the hope that now at length they will be entered upon. We see a liberal spirit of improvement acted on in the Punjaub, and 50 lacs allotted by a single stroke of the pen, for promoting the irrigation of that province ; and we see large expenditures on similar objects under the government of Agra; and yet we believe it to be certain that in neither of those territories will the returns, actual or expected, compare in amount with those which can be pointed to as the actual result of similar undertakings under this Presidency. We cannot believe that two such opposite courses of policy will be continued in different parts of one and the same empire; that while in one part of it a share of the resources of the state is wisely and liberally devoted to the promotion of the general wealth and the improvement of the revenue, the same enlightened policy will be ignored in another part, little if at all inferior in extent and population, and even more capable of making an abundant return for the outlay.

The want of engineer officers

705. And in order to the prosecution of both species of undertaking, works of irrigation as well as of communication, a large increase in the engineering establishments is absolutely necessary. Even now, with the present very meagre scale of work, operations are much hampered by the want of engineers. We have recently received a letter from Mr. Forbes, the collector of Cuddapah, which places the inconvenience of the paucity of engineer officers in a striking point of view. We have mentioned how entirely the internal communications of that fine district have

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(79)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
been neglected ; within a short period several grants have been made for their amendment, but now these are actually inoperative from the want of officers to act upon them. Mr. Forbes enumerates no less than four works thus arrested. Two of these are for the improvement of portions of the road from Cuddapah to Madras, on estimates to the amount of 27,000 rupees; the two others are the tracing of passes through mountain ranges, one of them is across the Nullah Malay hills, spoken of above as so often applied for in vain by the authorities of the Kurnool district, the other is a pass from the Cuddapah district into that of Nellore. All these four important works in that much neglected district are now at a standstill from the mere want of officers to carry them on.

This partly the reason of the absence of improvements

706. And we believe that to the same cause is partly owing the small extent of works undertaken throughout the country ; for without engineers projects cannot be investigated, or the necessary preliminary surveys and inquiries made, nor can even the necessity of an improvement be made known, or the existence of the evil to be remedied. It seems probable that the striking contrast observable in the condition of the west and of the east coast with regard to the means of access into the interior, is greatly due to the fact, that on the former there have been officers with leisure to attend to the roads, while on the latter there have not. In Canara and Malabar there are no works of irrigation, and the engineers there have had time to give attention to the roads. In all the districts on the east coast, on the contrary, except the two most northerly districts, the number of engineers has always been far too small even for properly attending to the irrigation works; and in Ganjam and Vizagapatam, there has never been even one engineer officer till recently.

707. We will now give some further reasons, in addition to the considerations above set forth, in vindication of our proposals.

Extent of territory and amount of population

And first we would earnestly call attention to the vast magntude of the work to be accomplished ; unless this is fully realized, the proposed establishment, seen by itself, must inevitably appear enormous. Let it be remembered then that the Madras Presidency contains above 138,000 square miles; besides the Mysore country, with an area of 28,000 square miles, which is also administered by officers of the Madras service, and which must be included in all arrangements for the future; the whole extent of country being thus 165,000 square miles. As to the population of this extensive territory : that of the Honourable Company's own provinces amounts, by the census completed last year, to 22,281,572 persons; and adding only 3,000,000 for Mysore, we have a total population of 25,000,000 and a quarter. The country then for whose improvement we have to provide is, within a trifle, three times as large as England and


--------------------------------------------------------------------------(80)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wales, and contains a population considerably more than one-third larger.*

The works to be done by means of the establishment.

708. And the work to be done in this vast territory and for this large population, is, first, though of insignificant account in comparison with the other two, to preserve the numerous government buildings in all parts of the country, the aggregate value of which considerably exceeds a million and a half sterling, and to add to their number from time to time as may be required ; second, to maintain and manage and keep in efficient repair the numberless works of irrigation, on which are dependent a revenue of 1,50,00,000 rupees annually, and private income to the annual value of probably two millions and a quarter sterling; and not only to maintain the existing works, but to extend them, by taking advantage of the many openings for turning to beneficial account the volumes of water now annually wasted; and third, not simply to maintain, but to create a system of internal communications commensurate with the wants of 25,000,000 of people, and such as is absolutely necessary to enable them to advance in wealth and civilization ; we may indeed say to enable the products of this country to retain even their present dubious position among those of other countries of the globe.

What the state of the internal communications now is throughout the country we have described already ; and they have to be gradually brought up from this abject state into a condition more befitting the claims of the nation holding rule in this country, to civilization. And it must not be forgotten that under the centralizing system which has ever prevailed in India, and more emphatically in the Madras Presidency, the whole staff necessary for directing the execution of this great work must appear on the government establishment. There are here no local or corporate bodies to divide the work with the supreme power. We have no turnpike trusts, no canal or railway companies. All must be done by the central power; who indeed in their capacity as sole landlord of almost the whole of the soil, stand in the position of that body which in every country not yet possessed of much commercial wealth, has the greatest interest in the formation of roads, and commands the largest funds for the purpose.

Proportion of the cost of the proposed establishments to the value of the property to be cared for.

709. Such is the task to be performed ; a great work undoubtedly, one which in its most important parts has been too long staved off; but respecting the importance of which, we trust, a juster appreciation prevails now in the places of power than at any former period. But, large as it is, there is too much vagueness in the idea when presented in this general view, and we will therefore endeavour to ascertain the value of the property and of the interests to be preserved and fostered, and to bring

(Footnote: * M' Culloch's " Statistical Account," (3rd Edition, Vol. I. p. 6), gives the area of England and Wales as 57,812 square miles ; the population by the census of 1851 is 17,922,768, or a trifle under 18,000,000.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(81)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
that into comparison with the cost of the establishment proposed for the purpose. As a preliminary, we must estimate the proportion of the whole cost of establishment due to each of the three branches of work above enumerated. And it will probably not be very far from the truth, if we assume one-eighth of the whole to be due to buildings, one-half to irrigation works, and three-eighths to roads. That is to say, the annual cost of the proposed establishment for buildings is 1,84,000 rupees; that for irrigation works is 7,35,000 rupees ; and that for roads and other communications is 5,50,000 rupees.

The government buildings.

710. Now as to the value of the property concerned : and first, that of the buildings, &c.	*	*	*

The irrigation works
	
711. Next as to irrigation works. For these we have no specific valuation, but we can without difficulty arrive at one quite sufficiently correct for our purposes. The annual revenue derived to government from irrigated land amounts to 135 lacs ; besides government revenue alienated to various classes in the form of enam or rent-free holdings, and which may be estimated at 15 lacs more. This makes a total of 1,50,00,000 rupees of annual revenue dependent on the works of irrigation; and taking the proportion which we have already stated between the revenue and the gross produce, viz., taking the revenue as equivalent to two-fifths of the whole crop (which is certainly a full valuation), the total annual value of the whole gross produce of irrigated land will be 375 lacs of rupees, or 3 3/4 millions sterling.

Their value.

Again, to take the value of the works themselves ; we have repeatedly stated that a vast amount of capital might now be invested in every district in the construction of works of irrigation which would yield a return of from 25 or 30 to 50 or 60 per cent. on the outlay ; but all who are acquainted with the existing works formed by the native governments know that many of them yield a far smaller ratio of profit. The reasons for this difference are various ; many of the works were placed in very badly selected positions, frequently from want of engineering skill and judgment in the projector, though sometimes in consequence of the limited extent of the dominions of the petty chief undertaking the work ; and again from the want of constructive skill, the cost of the work was often far larger than it need have been. Another cause is, that the works now irrigate far less land than they once did, and than they might at comparatively small cost be made to do again ; because the care and the preservation both of the works themselves and of their sources of supply, have been too much neglected by the British government. On all these considerations, we think that 10 per cent. may be taken as the annual return in revenue yielded by the existing works, on their original cost; and on this basis, the value of the work is 1,500 lacs, or 15,000,000l. sterling.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(82)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Percentage of the cost of establishment.

712. We find then that the annual cost of the proposed establishments for the custody and maintenance of the irrigation works, being 7,35,000 rupees, is less titan two per cent. on the annual income derived from them, and under one-half per cent. upon their estimated capital value. It surely cannot be considered extravagant to propose so trifling a charge for the maintenance of these valuable works. But to state the case in this way only, by no means does justice to it ; for our proposed establishment is drawn up with a view not only to the efficient maintenance of the existing works, but to that extension and improvement of them, and to that formation of new and most remunerating works, which in the earlier part of this report we have urged as so desirable. Indeed it may safely be said that the establishment for irrigation works will not be at all a charge, but a source of gain; for the revenue obtained from the improvement effected both in the economical execution of work, and in the efficiency of the works themselves, will pay the whole cost of that establishment, besides a large per centage of profit on the direct outlay.*
	*	*	*	*	*
The new works of irrigation constructed in this presidency have yielded 20, 30, 50, 80, and even more than 100 per cent. annual return in direct revenue, and there are numberless openings for other works sure to return fully as much.

We do not ask the government to spend money on works not likely fully to repay the interest of the capital in direct return, because numberless works remain to be executed, which would return vastly more. But we do seek to awaken them to the importance of taking advantage of those opportunities, and we do plead for the adoption of the liberal and enlightened policy of the north of India, so far as to regard the increase of wealth and comfort to the people, as in some degree an end to be consulted by the government. On such principles the improvement of irrigation would be extensively undertaken, a moderate assessment would be imposed on the land benefited, and the increase of revenue thus obtained would be devoted gradually to the reduction of the heavy taxation which now presses on industry
and checks cultivation and improvement in so many parts of the country.

(Footnote: * NOTE.óThe commissioners, in several paragraphs which follow, enter into lengthy details regarding the cost of constructing and maintaining several of the larger canals of North India, and then proceed to show that canals in the Madras Presidency would cost much less to produce a very much larger revenue.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(83)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Extract from a Report to the Board of Revenue on the subject of Irrigation, by Capt. (now Col.) A. Cotton, being Appendix B. to the foregoing Report.

28. Supposing it to be considered as allowed that the loss in revenue from not keeping up the irrigation works has been enormous, and far beyond what the expenditure would have been to have kept them in an efficient state, I will now consider the third question, What might be expended beyond what is necessary to keep the present works in good order? and must I not add, what would probably have been done under a native government, had it been favoured with the prodigious advantages we have had from continued peace, and such an extent of country under one authority, as would allow of works being executed upon a noble scale, so as to include great tracts within the influence of individual works or sets of works, which would have many and great advantages over a multitude of small unconnected schemes? Had anything approaching to what might be called an energetic system of proceeding in the irrigation question been followed up. who can estimate what might have been the state of the Carnatic at this time?

29. Had a hundredth part of the time, labour and money that has been lost by droughts, or expended in trying to obviate the effects of scarcities, been expended in providing against them, very much might have been effected. It is undoubted that in the worst year that ever occurred enough water has been allowed to flow into the sea to have irrigated ten times as much grain as would have supplied the whole population. The Carnatic, I acknowledge, is like England and every other country, not very able to support a large population, if nothing is done to provide water when naturally it would be deficient, and to carry it off when naturally it would be in excess; but I am fully assured that there is no reason whatever why it should not be one of the most populous and fertile countries in the world, if the energies of its government were exerted as they must be to render any country whatever what it is capable of. The present state of Tanjore will answer for the rest of the country ; the one grand difference
between that and the other districts is, that it is supplied with water. It is often supposed that it has great advantages in point of soil, but this is a mistake, the great proportion of land is by no means of particularly good quality, the proof of which is, that in general, if it is not irrigated, it is not worth cultivating for dry grains; what enables it to bear its crop is the fertilizing effect of the water. There are certainly in the other districts tracts of rocky ground, but they bear a small proportion to the lands which are of a quality equal on the average to those of Tanjore. What was the state of Tanjore itself 30 years ago, as shown by the returns of gross produce ? That varied in different

F2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------(84)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

years so much as to be in some nearly double what it was in others, a variation as great as, I believe, if not greater, than in any other districts ; and for this reason, that if the main freshes failed, or exceeded in any considerable degree, the whole year was lost, whereas in the other districts dependent upon the local rains, they often get rain enough to secure them a crop in another part of the year, though they may have failed at the regular season. That which has now made the crop of Tanjore so much more certain than it was, is, not that there has been any change of the seasons, but only the same thing which is wanted in other districts, viz., arrangements for securing the water better in deficient seasons, and getting rid of it better in excessive ones. I have before observed that the supply of water is ample throughout the Carnatic. If there is any doubt about this, let it be observed how much water runs into the sea by the Pennar, in Nellore, the Pallaur and the Poniaur, in North Arcot, the Vellaur, the Colleroon, the Vygay and the Tambrapoorny, not in severe freshes, but in moderate ones, undoubtedly more than enough to water the whole Carnatic. There are at this moment passing to the sea, by the Colleroon, at least 100 million cubic yards of water per day, sufficient for a crop of paddy on 8,000 cawnies ; in a good fresh, sufficient water for a crop on 30,000 cawnies runs to waste daily. In a moderate season enough is lost to water certainly at least a million cawnies, or a tract double the extent of Tanjore, which would provide grain for about 2 1/2 millions of people.

30. It would doubtless cost more to lead the same quantity of water through other districts, than it does to distribute it over Tanjore; but this is the only difference; and still it would most amply repay the cost of the necessary works, so far as I have been able to ascertain by inquiry. I estimate the value of water as follows : on an average, the value of the gross produce of a tawny of paddy, in one crop, may be reckoned at 20 rupees, the expense of cultivation at five, and the revenue at 10 rupees ; the quantity of water required for it may be estimated at 12,000 cubic yards, and allowing a portion of this to be supplied by the local rains, a supply of 10,000 cubic yards, secured by means of artificial works, will generally be sufficient. This water, so supplied, will almost certainly secure a revenue of one rupee per 1,000 cubic yards, besides about half a rupee net profit to the landowner. To compare this calculation with actual results on a large scale, I find that Tanjore receives, in an average season, 6,600 million cubic yards of water; but this includes a considerable quantity which is not required, viz., during the high freshes, and also during the local rains, when a great proportion flows into the sea. About 5,000 millions may be actually used, the revenue from which would be, if the rent-free lands were included, about 40 lacs ; this gives rather more than 1,200 cubic yards per one rupee of revenue. This is sufficiently correct

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(85)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
for our present purpose. As for the expense at which a certain quantity of water may be brought upon the lands, I judge from the cost of works now in use, and from the general experience I have had in the irrigation, that there are yet openings for undertakings to a very great extent, by which water may be obtained at the rate of 500 cubic yards per annum, for one rupee of outlay in entirely new undertakings; and hence two and a half rupees expended on new irrigation works would secure a revenue of one rupee ; but as the same portion of the population if employed on Poonjay land would pay to government, as far as I can ascertain, about two-fifths of the revenue that they would if employed on wet lands, the advantage to government would be only three-fifths of the whole Nunjay revenue, or three-fifths rupee for two and a half rupees of cost, or about one rupee per annum for four of capital expended, or 25 per cent. This result, I am well assured, is under the mark. In the case of the Colleroon anicuts, I reckon that certainly not less than 2,000 millions of cubic yards have been added to our annual supply of water for the irrigation below the Head of Seringham, in Trichinopoly, South Arcot and Tanjore, and this has been obtained at a cost of about 3,00,000 rupees, including a considerable sum for some small works which yet remain to be executed; this gives not much less than 7,000 cubic yards per rupee; but it is quite an extraordinary case, and the returns cannot probably be less than cent. per cent. on a series of ordinary years; not taking into calculation their effects in extraordinary seasons such as that of last year. There are, however, cases somewhat similar to this, where water may be obtained at a less cost than one rupee for 500 cubic yards, as above calculated ; such as those in which advantage is taken of works already constructed, the usefulness of which may be increased by some additional subordinate works; as, for instance, enlarging the channels from an anicut and adding a tank, in order to store up the water of the high freshes ; where this can be done, as it may in many places, the main work being already constructed, the additional ones may be completed at a smaller cost in proportion to the water to be obtained, than in an entirely new undertaking. Another case in which the effects of a certain expenditure will be greater than I have stated it, is where channel or tank irrigation has been so extended as to cause a frequent loss of the crop, as in the Ambaravutty and Noel cultivation in Co-imbatore, and more or less in most other places. In those circumstances the main part of the supply for the crop is already obtained, and a small addition that can be kept in readiness is all that is required ; I may therefore say, without hesitation, that there is much room yet for such additional works as would yield 50 per cent. in actual returns of revenue to government.

31. I will now merely notice a few situations where new works may be undertaken with advantage. It is evident that the first

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(86)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
expenditure should be made upon those rivers that contain the most constant and certain supply of water, and upon those tracts where there is already extensive cultivation, but which is not well secured in its supply of water. The Cauvery and its feeders, as being supplied by both monsoons, is of course the most important river of the Carnatic; and, secondly, the Pallaur, as passing through the next greatest extent of country. The Cauvery is also the first to be attended to, because so little has yet been done to it, while much smaller rivers, and those wholly dependent upon the more precarious supplies of the north-east monsoon, are overloaded with anicuts. There was not one in use on the Cauvery, below the Ghauts, previous to the construction of those in 1836. There is an ancient one near the Ghauts, but it is partially ruined, and it is not certain that it was ever made use of. The high freshes of this noble river are, therefore, entirely lost still, excepting that the Veranum tank, and one or two small ones, get a portion of their supply from it : for the anicuts, not having any other tanks attached to them, only secure the water of the moderate freshes.

32. The first new undertaking that I would mention is one that I examined into with some care in 1828, viz. the construction of large reservoirs in the Neilgherries and Delki Hills, for securing the cultivation of the Bawany and Ambaravutty, and assisting that of the Cauvery. I did myself the honour of reporting particularly upon this project in 1829, but the plan was not supported by the Board. I do not hesitate now to mention it again, because I trust that the time has arrived for distinguishing between those things that are merely new, and those that are in themselves really visionary. I have stated in my Report that the fine basins with narrow outlets that are found on the hills, the certainty of the supply of water, and the extent of the cultivation in the low country, subject to occasional deficiency of water, offer peculiar advantages which might easily be secured. As the Board have my Report, I need not enter further into the details of this plan.

33. The second undertaking that should be noticed, and which has been often partially brought to the notice of the Board, is the restoration of the Ponairy in Trichinopoly. This reservoir seems to have extended 30 miles in length, and its river channel, which was apparently 50 miles long, filled besides many smaller tanks. There seems to me to be almost every inducement to restore this reservoir ; and at the same time I think the work may be so planned as to form one of the most complete undertakings that could be executed in the Carnatic. I have not yet had time to investigate the case by any means completely, but so far as my knowledge of it goes, it appears that the best plan would be to lead off a large channel from the upper anicut, carrying it on as high a level as possible, so as to take it through the middle of the Arrialore and Oodiarpollium talooks, cultivating

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(87)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
much land immediately from the channel, filling almost every tank in those talooks (which are now dependent upon the local rains, and by far the greater part of which are now almost unproductive), securing a great portion of the water of the various jungle streams crossed by it, and discharging itself into the Ponairy ; at its head must be a lock, and from the Ponairy to the head of the Vuddavaur in South Arcot, which is only a few miles distant, a cut should be made, with another lock, so as to complete the water communication to the Porto Novo Canal. The advantages of this undertaking would then be :-

1st. In the high freshes of the Cauvery a large body of water which at present runs to the sea would be stored up in the Ponairy and other tanks, against the time of the low freshes; that is, during July, August and November, the water would be obtained to be used in September, October, December, January and February.

2nd. During the moderate freshes, when there is much more water than we can use for the present cultivation, a portion of it would be conveyed to a vast extent of lands, watered immediately from the channel, as well as to those under the tanks, for immediate use. Since this was proposed a canal is ordered to unite the Cauvery and Colleroon at the lower anicut, which makes this navigation complete.

3rd. There would be a most complete water communication from the upper part of the Cauvery to Porto Novo, which would be navigable for about seven months in the year, and for boats drawing not more than a foot, perhaps for nine months.

4th. A portion of water during the dangerous freshes would be led off from the river, and thus what at present is worse than useless would become very valuable. Every tank that is constructed to be filled during the high freshes is a step towards relieving the country from damage by floods. The main branch of this channel might also be carried across the Vellaur into South Arcot, conveying the water of the high freshes of July and August into innumerable tanks, at present dependent upon the north-east monsoon.

34. The use of the upper anicut would in this way be greatly extended. The two talooks of Arrialore and Oodiarpollium contain a vast extent of excellent lands for irrigation, and I am assured that the population is pressing hard upon the present cultivation. The people are most anxious for these works, and it is stated that since it has been known that they are in contemplation, many have been endeavouring to secure a right, by purchase or otherwise, to the lands likely to be watered. This is such a plan as I have long wished to see executed; all the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(88)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


present river channels, either from the smallness of their capacity and extent, or from their having too great a fall, merely water a narrow strip of ground near the river, but not one at present in use leads the water out fairly upon the general level of the country, so as to command a broad tract. In Coimbatore there are channels 50 miles long, but they have a fall of no less than six feet in a mile, and there are no channels from the Cauvery of more than 20 or 30 miles long. The total fall of the river from the upper anicut to that point which is opposite to the Ponairy, is about 180 feet, being 65 miles; hence, if the channel has a fall of one foot per mile, which is the fall of the Vuddavaur, it would at the end be 115 feet above the level of the river, and this, according to the information I have, is much more than the highest level of the ground in Oodiarpollium between the Cauvery and Vellaur, so that the whole of the lands of that tract might be commanded by the channel. These two talooks might thus be made almost as productive in proportion to their extent as Tanjore, and they would have greatly the advantage over it in respect of floods. I would strongly recommend this being immediately taken in hand; but it cannot be done properly without additional officers and surveyors, unless almost all other business of the department is stopped in the division.

The ayacut of Paroomal yairy alone is about 18,000 rupees; it now only waters land yielding 6,000 rupees.

35. The third work I would mention, is, to carry the waters from the lower anicut across the Vellaur, at the north end of the Veranum tank, into the Bowanygherry talook, filling the great tanks called Wallajah and Paroomal yairy (yielding, I believe, near 50,000 rupees revenue, if filled with water), and others, and terminating at Cuddalore. This is not a very extensive work, but it would, I should think, be extremely productive. The great object, of course, is to find means of storing up the water of the high freshes which the new anicuts have placed at our disposal, and wherever there is a large reservoir we should make use of it for this purpose if possible.

36. The fourth improvement, which I have good reasons to believe would be of great utility, and abundantly answer, is one that has been talked of for a great many years, but never thoroughly investigated ; viz., the restoration of the Nerinjapet anicut across the Cauvery, 15 or 20 miles above Bowany, and nearly due west of Salem. This is a very old work, about 400 yards long, and though breached, a great deal of it is still standing. I have not seen it myself, but have had an account of it from several persons; I have been, however, also informed, by an officer of the department, that a few miles higher up there is a good situation for leading off a channel without constructing an anicut. Next to the restoration of the Ponairy, this appears to me the best part of the country in which to construct an extensive tank for securing a further portion of the high freshes of the Cauvery. A very large channel should be led off from the east bank to convey water to the first site where an extensive

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(89)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
tank could be constructed, and I conclude that somewhere in that neighbourhood a large valley could be found fit for the purpose. A channel, 100 yards broad, would convey about 10,000,000 cubic yards per day during the high freshes, and if the tank was 15 miles long, three broad, and 10 yards deep in the deepest part, it would contain about 500,000,000 cubic yards, and would probably be filled every season, and supply water for a complete crop on 40,000 cawnies ; the value of it, however, would in effect be much greater than the revenue of that extent of land, for it would be used to complete the supply on lands already cultivated, at those times when the river was too low, and hence it would (with the supply to be received from the river during a great part of the season) secure an extent of cultivation of three or four times that amount. At present the cultivation everywhere is limited by the height of the water in the low freshes; thus, in a river channel which, when the river is high, conveys water enough for 10,000 cawnies, perhaps only 5,000 will be cultivated, because that is the utmost limit to which they can expect a sufficiency of water during the low freshes, so that if there is water enough for 10,000 cawnies on 60 days in the year, and only enough for 5,000 on 60 more, half the water during the 60 days is lost, and allowed to run to waste. But if there was a tank to provide only for the times of scarcity, the cultivation might immediately be extended. This is, however, besides securing the present cultivation, some of which is lost almost every year, and when the freshes are more irregular than ordinary very great remissions are made. Thus, last year there was probably one-ninth of the main crop of Tanjore lost, which, if such a tank as that now proposed had existed, would have nearly all been saved, and it would have in that one year produced about four lacs of rupees in revenue, besides greatly relieving the distress of the southern districts, by furnishing an additional supply of grain to the extent of perhaps 20 lacs of cullums. This would have been in Tanjore alone, besides the other Cauvery cultivation. The effect of such a work, in diminishing the danger of breaches in Tanjore, &c., would also probably be as good as if a lac of rupees was laid out on the Colleroon and Cauvery embankments. It would lower the rivers nearly a foot in a severe fresh. I think it probable that a channel from this anicut might be led on a sufficiently high level to carry water over the ridge which separates the feeders of the Vellaur from those of the Cauvery, between the latter river and Salem, in which case it might be turned into the former river and conveyed along its channel through the Ahtoor Pass, and when clear of the hills, it might be turned by an anicut into a channel which would lead north-east through the north-west parts of South Arcot, and across the Pallavaur near Conjeveram, thus carrying another supply from the Cauvery into the very

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(90)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

heart of the Carnatic, on a higher level than those mentioned in the preceding proposals.

37. The fifth improvement I would propose, should be a more extended use of the Pallaur. That great river, in one day, sometimes pours into the sea, I should suppose, as much as 200,000,000 of cubic yards, while there are, within a few miles of its banks, lacs of cawnies of good land perfectly waste, and on the lands that are cultivated the crops are continually lost for want of water. Probably the best works for that tract of country would consist of one anicut across the Pallavaur, as far to the westward as the nature of the country would admit, that is near the mouth of the Amboor Valley, with a large Rajah Voykal leading from each end of it, and extending 50 or 60 miles to the eastward, with small channels leading to the innumerable tanks already existing there, and another anicut lower down, perhaps near Arcot, with similar main and branch channels extending quite to the coast; when all the present cultivation had thus been provided for, advantage might be taken of every suitable situation for the construction of additional reservoirs. By this means the country between the Ghauts and Madras might be incalculably improved.

I shall not here say anything of the first division, as I am only speaking from report ; but it is well known that there are at least as fine openings for improved irrigation there as in the others.

38. 1 have mentioned these as instances of what might be done to make the Carnatic a fully cultivated and populated country ; and I do not doubt in the least, that were these plans followed out, even the climate would be greatly altered. Extended cultivation, accompanied as it would be by extended planting, would greatly diminish the severity of the hot winds, as in North America the climate has been wonderfully improved by clearing and draining the country.

39. Before concluding this part of the subject, I must remark upon the state of the population. I have been greatly disappointed in being unable to obtain from any person, to whom I have spoken on the subject, anything like a certain opinion as to the rate at which it is increasing ; all say that the returns are so inaccurate that they cannot be depended upon so much as to enable us to judge what addition there has really been in a certain number of years.

However, all seem to agree, 1st. That the returns are a tolerable approximation to the real number of people ; and 2ndly. That it is considerably on the increase. In the towns of Madras and Trichinopoly, it seems to be fully ascertained that the population has greatly increased ; and I suppose that this certainly indicates an increase in the rural districts. If this point is allowed the question is, how is the additional population to be

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(91)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
provided with grain food, by means of wet or of dry cultiVation? Supposing, for instance, that the population of the 12 districts is 9,000,000, and that it is increasing at the rate of one per cent. per annum, which, from what information I can obtain, seems certainly within the mark, there is an annual increase of 90,000 persons to be provided for, or within the next 11 years, 1,000,000. These would require 125,000 cawnies of Nunjay cultivation to supply them with food. Probably the quantity of Nunjay has been decreasing in about that proportion during the last 25 years. If, while the population has been increasing, the Nunjay cultivation has been decreasing, can it be a matter of surprise that every bad season causes such dreadful scarcities? Surely it is desirable at least that provision should be made for the increasing population by means of irrigated lands, otherwise their food must be supplied from Poonjay land, and must therefore be extremely uncertain. But besides increasing the Nunjay cultivation up to what it once was, and providing for the additional population in the same way, why should not every effort be made to substitute Nunjay for Poonjay ? Every step that is taken towards this end both diminishes the danger of scarcities, and greatly increases the comforts of the people; for perhaps one-half the number of persons are required to raise a certain quantity of food on wet land that are required on dry, and the remainder will of necessity be employed in manufactures. While the country is mainly dependent upon a system of cultivation so precarious that four-fifths of the whole population must be employed in raising food, it is impossible that the great body of the people can be well clothed or supplied with other comforts. Nor can the population itself increase rapidly; there can be no doubt that the scarcities, and even famines, that are so often experienced in this Presidency must seriously check the population. I conclude the actual number of deaths by famine, in the last 15 years, must be very great, from the accounts I have had from eye-witnesses.

40. I should on the whole recommend most earnestly that arrangements should be made, first, for the partial or complete restoration of the present works, not, however, without carefully comparing the probable results of each individual case with those of new works on a more extended scale. Where it can be done without direct injustice to individuals, it would certainly be better to construct new works on a large scale, that would yield 30 per cent., than restore old and small ones that would yield an increase of 40 per cent, upon the required outlay ; on account of the great advantage of having rather a few works of magnitude to watch over than a multitude of small ones. It is also very possible, that in some cases where extensive works are constructed, the cultivators under small works, still partially in a state of repair, might be induced to remove to the lands watered by the new works. I do not, however, see how the present 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(92)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
works, however imperfect and poorly supplied, can be allowed still further to deteriorate, without some distinct and equitable arrangement being made with the ryots. Second. For the construction of new works, either to water new land, or to secure the supply to lands already cultivated as Nunjay.
	*	*	*	*	*
56. I trust that there is now no occasion for me to say much on the importance of this subject. Though the country cannot advance without good judicial and revenue management, yet it is indisputably certain that nothing will avail unless the irrigation and communications are attended to. While the population are mainly dependent upon the local rains of so precarious a climate for their cultivation, four-fifths of the population must be employed in merely raising food; every five or six years we must witness the deaths of tens of thousands by famine, and the great body of the people must be without clothing or anything but a bare subsistence, even in fruitful seasons ; and, without communications, nine-tenths of the natural treasures of the country must continue to be useless. At present, what cannot be procured on the spot where it is wanted, cannot in general be had at all. A great portion of the population are even deprived of salt, which the country so lavishly produces, because of the expense of transport. Above all, the want of communication is, and ever must be, almost a total bar to the progress of knowledge and improvement generally.

57. Many attempts are now making to improve the state of the people in various ways ; but unless there is freedom of communication throughout the country, it will be perfectly impossible that such improvements can spread rapidly. However well any new plan succeeds, if the communications are not opened, it will never extend. And again, if we want to promote the general wealth and comfort of the community, we must be sure to lay a good foundation by supplying them with plenty of food. If a man was so circumstanced that four-fifths of his time was employed in getting only just enough of the plainest food to keep him in health, and the remaining fifth was not sufficient to enable him to supply himself with two yards of cotton cloth, with a prospect every four or five years of being either starved to death, or in imminent danger of it; and if we were to offer to show him how to grow sugar, he would probably say, "If you will first put me in the way of insuring to myself a supply of food and a bit of cloth, and a combly, without my whole time being taken up about them, I will then employ some of what time I have to spare in raising luxuries that I want myself, or that I can exchange for others ;" for it can scarcely ever answer to a country to bring much food from a distance; it will always be advisable to raise most of it on the spot; but when a country is in a state to provide abundance of food for its population, manufactures, &c. will flourish. Again, the price of

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(93)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
exportable produce, of course depends entirely upon the facility with which food is raised, and upon the price of produce entirely depends its capability of competing in foreign markets; thus, if food could be raised in this country with one-half of the labour that it has hitherto required, cottons, iron, &c. could be produced at greatly diminished prices, and the profits .upon them in foreign markets proportionally increased.

58. It is often remarked that there are so few manufactures in the country ; how can it be otherwise, when almost all are required to raise food, and of the remainder such a number to carry it about ; and when everything must be brought to where it is required at such an enormous price, at a price, which, if it existed in the same proportion in England, would at once destroy nine-tenths of the traffic of the country.

59. If this view of the irrigation question is not upon the whole a fair representation of the case, how does it happen that Tanjore, the only district well irrigated and producing a sufficiency food, is the only district of the twelve, that is in every respect regularly advancing. If it really is not a correct view it must at least be allowed that this is a question which should not be lost sight of till it is fully investigated.

60. I am quite satisfied that there is nothing in the natural state of the Carnatic which should prevent its being one of the most populous and fertile countries in the world; and I think that the results of what has been done in Tanjore and in South Arcot, even without considering the utter insufficiency of the Tank department, are such as to give the fullest assurance of ample success to the most extensive system of operations. Everything is ready to commence upon it. With a healthy climate, abundance of fertile soil, unlimited mineral treasures, especially the finest iron probably in the world, ample supplies of water, if taken care of, an increasing population, a service extraordinarily favourable for communications, internal and external peace, and almost any amount of capital at the disposal of government (for crores can be obtained from England if necessary),there is really nothing wanting but action, to produce such a hange in the whole face of things as cannot now be conceived.

61. The following is a summary of my views on this subject :-
1st. That the nature and importance of the subjects of the irrigation and communications has been hitherto altogether misapprehended, leading to a loss of revenue, and a retardation of the progress of improvement in the state of the community, which is quite beyond calculation.
2nd. That as respects communications, no country whatever can prosper if they are not made the very first objects of attention ; and that as respects irrigation, it is in this country, owing to the peculiar character of the climate, undoubtedly the very first subject to be attended to ; inasmuch as we cannot

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(94)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
rationally expect that there will not be famine and want of every kind, just in proportion as the cultivation is more or less dependent upon local rains, without the help of artificial works.

63. 4th. That when once a country is favoured as this is with a strong and upright government, the only things which can possibly support effectually internal arts and manufactures, and foreign trade, are an abundant, certain, and cheap supply of food, and rapid, easy, and cheap transport ; nor without these can a nation make rapid progress in knowledge. While a people are scarcely provided with food, and not at all with clothing, they cannot be expected to think much of any other things ; and while intercourse is so restricted, the state of a community approaches to that of men in a prison, each one shut up in a separate cell, so that the progress of the individuals depends wholly upon the discoveries of their own mind, instead of having also the full benefits of all the thoughts of the other inmates of the place; whereas, just in proportion as the freedom of intercourse approaches to completeness, the state of each individual approaches to the state of a person possessed in himself of all the powers and capacities of the multitudes of minds of which that community is composed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(95)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE 95 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(96)--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

				
TABLE 96 ATTACHED SEPARATELY


--------------------------------------------------------------------------(97)-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Minute recorded by the Honourable John Sullivan, Member of the Council of Madras, on the Importance of improving Irrigation.

Report, 20th February, 1840, para.61.

" In his report upon the causes of the decline in the land revenue, Mr. Cotton has observed, that ' there is no country in the world where the items constituting an unfavourable season are so few, and where the means of obviating them are so extensively within the power of government, as in the Madras territories ; there is no part of any one district which cannot with the greatest facility be brought under the influence of a river ; so long, therefore, as one drop of water is allowed to run waste into the sea we must take blame to ourselves for not exerting our best efforts to obviate the evils of scarcity or the dreadful effects of famine.'

2. In the last revenue year 1248, there was a falling off in the collections from the land of upwards of 10 lacs in comparison with the collections of the preceding year. Famine was felt partially in the districts of Ganjam, Vizagapatam and Rajahmundry ; and in almost every district the crops were injured materially from drought.
	
TABLE 97 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

3. That these evils might, to a very great degree, be obviated if we took proper advantage of the means which Providence has put within our reach, is plain from the state of those districts which are to a certain extent watered from the rains of the S. W. monsoon.

4. Although the crops in Tanjore are frequently prevented from coming to perfection by the failure of the periodical rains, and are occasionally injured by an excess of rain, that district serves as a granary for the South of India in the worst of seasons. It owes this advantage entirely to its works of irrigation, the soil of the province being by no means naturally fertile.

5. It will be seen by reference to the accounts appended to this Minute, that there is the same steadiness of produce in all those parts of the districts of the Southern Division which are irrigated from the same source ; that when, from a failure in the periodical rains, there is a great deficiency in the revenue from dry lands, and from land under reservoirs which depend for their supplies of water entirely on the local rains, there is little or no defalcation from the lands which are watered from the rains of the S. W. monsoon. They are always a saleable and transferable property, and yield every variety of produce.

6. Much has been done to improve the irrigation of these districts of late years, particularly of Tanjore, Trichinopoly and
G

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(98)-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

South Arcot; and works are now in progress, which, by turning the waters of the rivers Kistnah and Godavery to the purposes of irrigation, will give the Northern Districts the same advantages in this respect as are possessed by the Southern. But as the advantages which would be derived from an increased and systematic expenditure in this department do not appear to be generally understood, I shall venture a few remarks upon the subject, taking as my guide a report made by Captain Arthur Cotton to the Board of Works, a copy of which I append to this Minute.

	TABLE 98 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

7. That officer estimates the annual value of the crop, which depends upon works of irrigation under the charge of Government, at 320 lacs of rupees, and the annual revenue derived from nunjah or rice lands at 118 lacs or about one-half of the whole land revenue ; and he calculates from the increase which has accrued to the revenue of Tanjore, Trichinopoly and parts of South Arcot, from improvements in the sources of irrigation, that if equal attention was given to the works in other districts, there would be an increase in the gross produce of 93 and in the revenue of 35 lacs.

8. He comes to this conclusion from facts which have come under his own observation ; viz., that all the tanks in the country, and all the channels, excepting those of Tanjore, and the very large ones of other districts, water " less land than they once did, many only a quarter, and great numbers from one-half to three-fourths; that the nunjah revenue in North Arcot is three lacs below what it was 10 years ago, two lacs less in South Arcot, and in Tinnevelly three quarters of a lac."

Paras 10 and 11

9. In Tanjore, where particular and systematic attention has been given to the works for many years, there has been no less an increase than nearly 40 per cent. in the gross produce ; the variations in the amount of the produce in the first five of the last 30 years were from 100 to 57; in the last five of the same series they were only 100 to 95 1/4

10. This steadiness of produce Captain Cotton considers to be the best test of the "state and effect of the irrigation works, both because the very object of them is to obviate the effects of the irregularity. of the seasons, so that the crops may not be drowned in very wet ones or burnt in very dry ones, and also because it is an effect which is most clearly to be attributed to that cause."

Para 13.

11. He estimates the original cost of all the works of irrigation at 825 lace of rupees, and the annual expenditure upon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(99)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Para. 14.

them at 6,30,000 rupees, or two-thirds per cent. ; 5 per cent. upon the actual revenue, viz. 118 lacs ; and 2 per cent. upon the total annual produce which is dependent upon them. In England the annual outlay upon works in which the water is retained is from 3 to 4 per cent. on the original cost, or from four to six times as much as is allowed in this country; this difference, he thinks, affords prima facie evidence that the expenditure in this country is inadequate. He shows that a tract  of land in Tanjore, which yielded a revenue of 26,000 rupees, and a property of 60,000 rupees a year, was rendered unproductive for six years, in consequence of the limited establishment of the Repair Department, which would not admit of the necessary repairs being made when they were required. They were ultimately done at an expense of 23,000 rupees, but not until "an annual loss of property neatly three times as great as the sum required to restore the works ; and in six years property to the amount of 3 1/2 lacs of rupee had been lost, for want of an expenditure of 23,000 rupees and an officer to plan and conduct the work."

	TABLE 99 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

12. He gives another instance of the ruin brought upon property, and damage done to the revenue, in the district of South Arcot, from a delay of eight years in excavating a channel of importance, which from neglect had been allowed to fill up to a depth of about two yards. The revenue, which under the Nabob had been five or six lacs, and under the earlier periods of the Company's government, 2,20,000 rupees, had gradually fallen to 1,18,000 rupees. The talooks were almost ruined, and many of the people had emigrated. In the course of six years from 1831, by an expenditure of about a lac and a half of rupees, the revenue had increased to 2,.58,000 rupees, and has gone on increasing ever since. This delay, so costly to the government and the people, was occasioned entirely by a want of hands in the department.

13. Captain Cotton observes, that as lands watered from government works are bought and sold in dependence upon the faith of government, that the works will be kept in good order, justice, no less than policy requires, that this obligation should be faithfully discharged ; " None," he says, " but those who have been in actual Contact with the people, can believe the extent of loss to which landowners have quietly submitted from a failure in the irrigation works." "There are at this moment multitudes of estates, that are of one-fourth and one-half the value that they once were, owing to the decayed state of the irrigation works."

14. Omitting Tanjore, where the revenue, from the unremitted attention which has been paid to the works, has steadily increased

G2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(100)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

creased, the land revenue of the watered districts was on an average of five years, terminating with Fusly 	1214 .. 214 lacs.
											1219 .. 216 Ñ
											1224 .. 203 Ñ
											1229 .. 215 Ñ
Since which it has regularly declined in 15 years to 189 1/2 * lacs, being a falling off in that period of 26 1/2 lacs per annum (more than four times the whole cost of the repair department) in a period of profound peace, and " under a strong, orderly and upright government."

Para. 24.		

15. Taking Tanjore as an example, it seems highly probable that if the works could have been maintained in the same state of efficiency in other districts, the revenue would at all events have been maintained at its former standard, instead of having declined during the last 15 years to the extent of more than a crore of rupees.

16. In Coimbatore, where "the works consist chiefly of noble channels of from 30 to 50 miles long, supplied by very solid anicuts across rivers filled by the south-west monsoon, while the rest of the revenue, from want of rain and other causes, has miserably declined, the nunjah revenue (under these channels) has not in the least diminished, the expense of keeping these works in repair being very insignificant."

17. If all the water which now runs waste down these rivers in favourable years was stored up and turned upon the land, there would be a sufficiency in moderate seasons (Captain Cotton estimates) to water at least a million cawnies, or a tract double the extent of 'Tanjore, which would provide grain for about two and a half millions of people.

18. The positive importance to the cultivation of all the rivers which are fed by the south-west monsoon in the southern districts, and their relative importance, are clearly shown in the report of the collector of Coimbatore for Fusly 1248: " With respect to the wet cultivation" (he says) "the south-west monsoon afforded a very deficient supply to the tanks, and as the wet lands in the district cannot be cultivated to any extent unless a full supply is received in both monsoons, they were, therefore, left waste to a considerable extent. The fresher in the Noyel were unusually low ; hence the greater part of the wet land dependent upon this river was left waste. In the Cauvery there was an average supply of water, and nearly so in the Bhowany and Umbravutty. The wet cultivation of several villages dependent upon the latter river suffered from the lowness of the

(Footnote: *The average yearly revenue in the three periods was as follows:ó
						Rupees.
In the five years terminating with Fusly 1234		2,02,60,000
	Ditto	ditto		1239	 	1,98,30,000
	Ditto	ditto		1244	 	1,89,50,000)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(101)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
freshes, but, with this exception, the wet lands irrigated by the channels were cultivated to the usual extent."

19. The tanks depend for their supply upon the local rains, it is, therefore, precarious ; the rivers are filled from the rains which fall on the hills, and their relative supply depends upon the geographical position of these hills. The Cauvery has its source in Coorg, which is further west than the Neilgherry range in which the Bhowany originates; this range again is nearer the western coast than the Delhi range in which the Umbravutty rises; and that range is further west than the range in which the Noyel has its source.

20. The same results as occurred in Coimbatore in 1248 will be found in every district. The nunjee revenue, which depends upon tanks, fails with the poonjee in a bad season, because they depend for their supply upon the local rains ; but the cultivation under the river channels is not affected, or only partially affected, when the local rains fail. Hence the pressing necessity of extending the reservoirs and cultivation from those sources.

Para. 30.

21. The increase of revenue from such works Captain Cotton calculates would be, one rupee per annum for four rupees of outlay, or 25 per cent.; and judging from actual results, this estimate appears to be quite on the safe side, that is to say, for works which are to be supplied from rivers fed by the S. W. monsoon. In general the produce of wet is to that of dry land as five to one at least, so that the increase of revenue from dry converted into wet is from 1,000 to 5,000. If this conversion is effected merely by the extension of existing works the outlay is trifling and the gain immense; the following is an example : In 1806 dry lands, which yielded an annual revenue of 9,641 rupees 14 annas and 5 pice, were converted into wet, by the prolongation of the Calingaroyen channel of the Bhowany river in Coimbatore, and the revenue increased to 51,169 rupees.
																																														Difference.......................41,527 Ñ 
which it has yielded ever since. The estimate for a further continuation of the channel is 41,000 rupees, and of increased revenue 21,000 rupees.

22. But if new works are to be constructed, anicuts for instance, for appropriating the rains of the N. E. monsoon, which are comparatively scanty and precarious, the outlay will be heavy and the profits proportionately reduced ; it may be safe, therefore, to take 25 per cent. as the average return.

23. This increase, however, is but one item of the advantage of converting dry into wet land. It is the certainty of the revenue, where a perennial stream is carried over the land, that gives a peculiar value to such a change. It is not only the great increase that has taken place in Tanjore, and in parts of other districts which enjoy the benefits of river irrigation, but the steadiness of the revenue. While very large remissions of

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(102)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
revenue, and dreadful losses to the people, have occurred upon the lands which depend for their produce upon the periodical rains, the wet lands of these districts have continued to yield their harvests, and have been the means of keeping the people alive.

24. It is remarkable, with the melancholy evidence which each year brings with it, more or less, that water, and water alone, is wanting to prevent those dreadful famines which periodically afflict us, that "attempts should have been made to throw a doubt on the policy of extending works of irrigation." It is the failure of the periodical rains that brings with it famine and pestilence ; it is from that cause alone, and not from over-assessment, that the prosperity of the Madras Provinces is retarded. There is but one remedy, and that is, to store up the waters that are now permitted to run waste into the sea, and turn them upon the land.

25. For doing this we possess an advantage that has never belonged to any other government. We have the command of the whole course of the rivers which intersect our southern and centre provinces, and such a command of those that run through the northern districts as will enable us to turn them to the best account.

Para 52.

26. Captain Cotton proposes to begin by constructing large reservoirs in the hills in which the southern rivers have their rise ; " the fine basins, with narrow outlets, that are found on the hills, the certainty of the supply of water, and the extent of the cultivation in the low country, subject to occasional deficiency of water, offer peculiar advantages which might easily be secured ; a great part of the crops are frequently in danger, from the supply of water being inadequate towards the time of the crops ripening on the land at present watered. This danger might be obviated if the surplus water which the S. W. monsoon affords could be stored on the hills for use in the dry season;"* new channels, or the lengthening of the old ones, might be executed with advantage, but without any new works below ; an additional supply of water would increase the revenue, by enabling the ryots to cultivate two crops where at present they only give one.

Para. 33.	

27. It would also enable the government to restore ancient reservoirs in the low country, which have been suffered to go to decay ; amongst others the " Ponairy in Trichinopoly," a reservoir 30 miles in length, with a river channel 50 miles long, which filled, besides the Ponairy, many smaller tanks. The advantages of this undertaking would beó
" 1st. In the high freshes of the Cauvery, a large body of water, which at present runs to the sea, would be stored up in the Ponairy and other tanks, against the time of the low freshes.

(Footnote: * Report from Captain A. Cotton, dated 4 December, 1828.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(103)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
" 2nd. During the moderate freshes, when there is much more water than we can use for the present cultivation, a portion of it would be conveyed to a vast extent of lands, watered immediately from the channel, as well as those under the tanks for immediate use.
" 3rd. There would be a most complete water communication from the upper part of the Cauvery to Porto Novo, which would be navigable for about seven months in the year, and for boats drawing not more than one foot, for perhaps nine months.
" 4th. A portion of water during the dangerous freshes would be led off from the river, and then what at present is worse than useless would become very valuable. Every tank that is constructed to be filled during the high freshes is a step towards relieving the country from damage by floods. The main branch of this channel might also be carried across the ' Vellaur ' into South Arcot, conveying the water of the high freshes of July and August into innumerable tanks at present dependent upon the rains of the N. E. monsoon ; nor is there any reason whatever why it should not terminate in the Cooum at Madras, for it would have a fall of three quarters of a foot per mile, and there is no serious obstacle to the cutting a channel all along that line. The waters of the S. W. monsoon would thus be conveyed through the very heart of the Carnatic, and incalculable advantages derived from them."
28. Captain Cotton proposes to accomplish this great work by leading off a large channel from the upper anicut, carrying it on as high a level as possible, so as to take it through the middle of the Arialoor and the Woodiarpolliam Talooks in Trichinopoly, cultivating much land immediately from the channel, filling almost every tank in those talooks, which are now dependent upon the local rains, securing a great portion of the water of the various jungle streams crossed by it, and discharging itself into the Ponairy.
29. Such a channel would command the whole of the lands through which it ran, and render the two talooks, " almost as productive in proportion to their extent as Tanjore ;" they contain, it is said, a great extent of excellent land for irrigation, population is pressing hard upon the present cultivation, and the people are represented as so anxious for the works, that the value of the land has already much increased in the prospect of their being executed.
30. The third great work which Captain Cotton points out as feasible is to convey water from the Colleroon across the river Vellaur, at the north end of the Veraunum Tank, into the Bowanagherry Talook, in South Arcot, filling the great tanks called Wallajah and Peroomalairy (which if filled would yield a

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(104)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
revenue of 50,000 rupees a year) and others, and terminating at Cuddalore.
31. The fourth is the reconstruction of an unfinished or damaged anieut which crosses the river Cauvery, at Nerinjapet in the Coimbatore District, and the excavation of a canal upon such a level as would admit of its waters being carried into the very heart of the Carnatic.
32. The fifth is the construction of an anicut across the Palaar, for turning its waters, which now run waste into the sea at the rate, it is supposed, of 200 million cubic yards a day, over the whole country between the mouth of the Amboor Valley to the coast, " filling the innumerable tanks which would lie in its course, and incalculably improving the whole country between the Ghauts and Madras."
33. It is estimated that the population of the twelve districts which form the southern and centre divisions (Nellore included) is increasing at the rate of one per cent. per annum, so that at the end of eleven years there will be 1,000,000 additional mouths to be provided for.
34. To supply this number with food, 1,25,000 cawnies of nunjee land would be required to be brought into cultivation, it appears that the cultivation of nunjee during that period has greatly declined in some districts, and has been nearly stationary in others. Every step that is taken to convert dry land into wet, "diminishes the danger of scarcities, and greatly increases the comforts of the people; for perhaps one-half the number of persons are required to raise a certain quantity of food in wet land, as required on dry, and the remainder will of necessity be employed in manufactures."

Mr. C.Cotton's Report para 63.

" By irrigation every species of produce is improved, and the labour of tillage reduced, while the amount of produce is increased on any given space, and if the extent of population does not keep pace with that increase, or new varieties of crop do not prevent a superabundance of the grains now commonly cultivated, the decrease of price must be followed by a corresponding decrease in the commutation at which the assessment is made, whereby both grower and consumer will be directly benefited, and the government repaid by the extension of cultivation, and the improved means of the people."
35. No stronger proof can be given of the importance of this subject, or of the necessity for a vigorous effort to put the revenue from the land upon a permanent footing, than the fact that the demand against the five districts which compose the Northern Circars, during the last four years, was 2,50,02,390, and the collections only 1,76,95,763; difference, 73,17,627. This large defalcation arose in districts in which government made great sacrifices when they formed the zemindary settlement, in order to secure a steady revenue. The bad management of the zemindars may have contributed to this result, but the main cause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(105)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
was undoubtedly failure in the periodical rains. This failure did not materially affect the large rivers which run through them, the "Kistnah" through Guntoor and Masulipatam, the " Godavery" through Rajahmundry, and within the reach of Vizagapatam, as branches of the " Mahanuddee" probably are of Ganjam.

36. It is no longer a speculation, the fact has been put beyond doubt by actual survey, that Masulipatam may be made more fertile than Tanjore, and the cultivation of large tracts in Guntoor put beyond the hazard of failure, by applying the waters of the Kistnah to purposes of irrigation ; and there is every reason to believe that the same advantages might be obtained for the other districts, by making the same use of the rivers which either intersect them, or which might be turned into them.

Para. 55.

" Though the country," observes Captain Cotton, " cannot advance without good judicial and revenue management, yet it is indisputably certain that nothing can avail, unless the irrigation and communications are attended to. While the population is mainly dependent upon the local rains of so precarious a climate fbr their cultivation, four-fifths of the population must be employed in merely raising food, and every five or six years we must witness the deaths of tens of thousands by famine, and the great body of the people must be without clothing or anything but a bare subsistence even in fruitful seasons." If we want to promote the general health and comfort of the community, we must be sure to lay a good foundation by supplying them with plenty of food. The price of exportable produce of course depends entirely upon the facility with which food is raised, and upon the price of produce entirely depends its capability of competing in foreign markets. Thus, if food could be raised in this country with one-half of the labour that it has hitherto required, cotton, iron, &c. could be produced at greatly diminished prices, and the profits upon them in foreign markets proportionally increase.
" It is often remarked that there are so few manufactures in the country. How can it be otherwise, when almost all are required to raise food, and of the remainder such a number to carry it about; and when everything must be brought to where it is required at such an enormous price; a price which, if it existed in the same proportion in England, would at once destroy nine-tenths of the traffic of the country ?" With a healthy climate, abundance of fertile soil, unlimited mineral treasures (the first iron perhaps in the world), ample supplies of water, if taken care of, an increasing population, a surface extraordinarily favourable for communications, internal and external peace, and almost any amount of capital at the disposal of government, there can be no difficulty in raising abundance of food, and of raising it with more economy than in any other

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(106)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
country in the world ; there is really nothing wanting but action to produce such a change as cannot now be conceived.
33. We have seen that the average collections from the land * for the first five years of the present century, viz., from Fusty 1210 to 1214, amounted to 2,40,30,000 rupees, and for the five ending with Fusly 1244 to 2,25,50,000 rupees ; but if Tanjore be excluded, the result of the comparison will be still more discouraging.
						Rupees
Average collections from Fusly 1210 to 1214		2,14,10,000
From 1240 to 1244 		 		1,89,50,000
In the first five years, the average produce 		
of Tanjore was, Cullums 				94,19,689	
In the last 					1,31,70,125
						________________
Increase 						37,50,436
						39 3/ 4 per cent.
						________________

The fluctuations in the produce during the first period were between 100 and 57; in the last, between 100 and 95 1/4 Ü.

39. It has been stated that the revenue in two of the talooks in South Arcot (Manargoody and Chillumbrum) was increased in six years from 1,81,180 rupees to 2,90,605 rupees, in consequence of the attention paid to the irrigation works, principally by the construction of an anicut across the Colleroon. That work cost 1,64,756 rupees; it came partially into operation in Fusly 1245, and up to Fusly 1249 the increase attained in South Arcot alone has been 1,38,129. independently of the benefits derived in Tanjore; so that the work has already more than paid for itself.

40. It is clear from these facts, that whenever the government are compelled, by want of an adequate establishment, to postpone the execution of any similar work, they lose hundreds in revenue for every rupee that is saved in charges. At present there are urgent applications from several collectors for engineers to report upon important projects, which cannot be complied with ; and if those which have been enumerated in this paper should be found feasible, and promise large and immediate returns, they cannot be undertaken for want of competent superintendents.

(Footnote: * That is, in the twelve irrigated Ryotwar districts: viz. Nellore, Bellary, Cuddapah, Chingleput, North Arcot, South Arcot, Salem, Tanjore, Trichinopoly, Tinnevelly, Madura, Coimbatore.
Ü As the revenue of Tanjore fluctuates with prices, the produce has been taken as a test of the prosperity of the district instead of the collections. The collections in that part of the district which is not influenced by prices have increased in nine years, viz. from Fusly 1240 to 1248 from 9,62,385 rupees to 10,43,343 rupees.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(107)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
41. When it is considered that the districts of this Presidency are, upon an average, from 100 to 120 miles in length, by 80 or 100 miles broad, that each of them contains from 1,000 to 3,000 works of irrigation, scattered in different directions, independent of roads, bridges and public buildings, and undergoing an annual expenditure of a lac of rupees, it is evident that there can be nothing like effective superintendence of public works, unless there is an engineer attached to each ; and as this officer must make plans and prepare estimates for every work, and keep a diary of all his proceedings, which must be copied in duplicate or triplicate, either he must go through this mechanical labour himself, and neglect his own important duties, or he must be allowed a suitable establishment for them.

42. Under the present arrangement of the department, the assistant to the civil engineer, a commissioned officer, who has had a costly education and receives a high salary, and a surveyor, whose pay is 175 rupees a month, are " employed in making two copies of their own diaries, which could be done by men on 20 rupees; and an experienced surveyor, capable of planning works, is employed in copying plans of tunnels and cutcherries, which require no thought or ability, and for which men could be obtained at one-third of the cost :" all this is in violation of an acknowledged principle, that it is waste of money to employ any person in doing duties that can be done by others at a less cost; such a violation would never be thought of in any other department : no European assistant who receives a salary of some hundred rupees a month is ever employed, either at the Presidency or in the provinces, in copying papers.

43. I have heard an opinion broached, that although the neglect of the works of irrigation is a cause, yet it is far from being the principal cause of the decline in the land revenue; that bad seasons, defective revenue arrangements and management, the ruin of the foreign trade, the corruption of the native revenue servants, and heavy assessments, have more to do with the defalcations than want of water.

44. But the conclusive answer to this is, that wherever there is abundance of water there is no want of revenue, that Tanjore and all those parts of the southern districts which are watered from the rivers of the S. W. monsoon, are in a most flourishing condition, the land saleable and the people comparatively wealthy.

45. How does it happen that Tanjore, which depends almost entirely for its food and its revenue upon artificial irrigation, is the only one of the twelve Carnatic districts that is in every respect steadily advancing in prosperity? Its assessment is not a jot lighter than that of other districts, and it is open to all the evil influences which are supposed to retard the general prosperity. It is assuredly its never failing supplies of water that give it this advantage ; an advantage which, when the revenue

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(108)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
was levied in kind and absorbed one-half of the produce, enabled the ryots to preserve their lands as a valuable private property.

46. I believe it will be found that "foreign trade" has reached its extreme point of depression, that the native manufacturers are beginning to lift up their heads, and, from the facility with which they imitate European patterns, it seems probable that, if machinery were introduced amongst them, India would again become an exporting nation : I am not aware that there is a single district in the Madras territory which is over assessed, though there may be some particular tracts -which require reduction.

47. Of corruption and embezzlement there is, no doubt, abundance ; but if the land was well watered instead of being parched by drought every five or six years, there might be as much corruption, but there would certainly be more revenue, and more left to the producers of revenue. People do not die of famine because Env-Teen cloth is used instead of country, but simply because the land, for want of water, will not yield its produce.

See letter from civil engineer, fifth division, to Board of Works, 10 August, 1840.

48. It seems to me, therefore, advisable that the Board of Works should be called upon to report upon Captain Cotton's suggestions. The works which he has proposed will, if practicable, be of the highest benefit to the country ; and the vast advantages which have been already derived from the upper and lower anicuts, works which were entirely planned by him, entitle his opinions on the subject to particular respect. It is satisfactory to know that, after some of the heaviest freshes that have ever been known in the Cauvery, no damage whatever has been done to the banks of either river; on the contrary, the civil engineer reports that Tanjore was never so free from breaches as it has been this year. Many things, he says, have now been proved which were before considered doubtful : " The fear that the beds of the rivers were rising by the influx of sand, caused by the upper anicut, is one of them, for had that been the case we must have found the embankments too low for such a flood as this, and breaches would have been the sure consequence. No alarm need now be entertained from the increased body of water thrown into the Cauvery by the anicut, for it is evidently more than counteracted by the sluices and calingulahs of discharge; and I am fully satisfied that these minor works, acting in concert, regulate both the water and the sand, and give all the control necessary for the safety of the country in floods, and the supply of the irrigation, and that no further works whatever, for any general effect, are necessary."

49. One of the projects suggested by Captain Cotton has, I observe, been partially investigated, and the result is highly encouraging. A former collector of Trichinopoly, Mr. Nelson, has the merit of having first drawn attention to the great reservoir, called the " Ponairy." This was in 1832. He stated

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(109)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
that 20,000 cawnies might be cultivated if that work was restored ; no notice, however, appears to have been taken of this representation, and it was not until 1836 that the project was revived by Captain Cotton, in the report which is now under consideration.

50. In 1837, a partial survey of the old work was made, and its prosecution strongly recommended by the Engineer Officer of the division, Lieutenant Ditmas, and the then collector, Mr. Blair. Three years more, however, were suffered to elapse without any measures being taken to forward it, when the subject was again urged upon the Board of Works by the present collector. He stated that the ryots of the Woodiarpolliem Talook alone " were willing to undertake the cultivation of 9,000 cawnies, which would yield a revenue of between 80 and 90,000 rupees, but that this did not at all approximate to the whole quantity which might be brought under cultivation. In Arinlore, there would be a great increase."

51. The Board, upon this urgent representation, ordered the Engineer, as soon as his other duties would permit, personally to examine the project, which they said appeared to be of vast importance ; but the other duties of the Engineer are so heavy as to make it impossible for him to give immediate attention to the work ; and, unless he is assisted, there is no chance of anything being effectually done. Here is a striking instance of a project, allowed by all the authorities to be of great importance, being suffered to linger for years for the want of an efficient establishment. A tenth of the revenue that has been lost from the neglect of this project, in the eight years that have already elapsed since it was broached by Mr. Nelson, would have paid for such an increase in the establishment as is required. As another instance, I may mention that a survey was in progress for restoring works upon the Pennaar River, in South Arcot, upon which an increase of a lac of rupees to the revenue depended, when the Surveyor was taken away to survey some pasture lands in Mysore, which had been appropriated for the public cattle.

52. I think, therefore, that the Board of Works should be instructed to report without delay what addition will be required to the Civil Engineer's department to enable it to carry out all the important works that have been suggested within the last few years, should they upon a careful investigation be considered feasible, viz.:

1st. The complete irrigation of the districts of Rajahmundry, Guntoor and Masulipatam, from the Kistnah and Godavery, and a canal of communication from the latter river to the Pulicat Lake.

2nd. The construction of an anicut across the " Palaar," with all the necessary subordinate works. The restoration.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(110)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of the "Poonairy," upon the plan suggested by Captain Cotton.

3rd. The restoration of the anicut across the Cauvery, at Nerinjepett," and the execution of canals from that river, to be carried through the districts of Salem and Coimbatore, upon as high a level as possible.

4th. A canal from the lower anicut across the River Vellaur, for filling the great tanks of Wallajah and Peroo-malairy, in South Arcot.

5th. The diversion of a stream, which now runs waste to the westward, into the River "Noel," in order to afford adequate supplies of water to the extensive cultivation under that river.

6th. The construction of a series of reservoirs on the hills, for storing up the surplus waters of the S. W. monsoon, which now run waste.

53. Many of these works are indicated in the accompanying skeleton map. It was long ago recommended by Colonel De Havilland, an officer of the highest talent and most extensive experience, that this government should not cease in their efforts to improve the irrigation of the country until they had turned to account all the water which now rolls in volumes to the sea, by the rivers which intersect the Peninsula ; and he proposed to effect this object by excavating extensive canals, which would serve at once for purposes of irrigation and communication.

54. This recommendation has its foundation in the fact, that our provinces prosper or decline, according to the supply of water which they receive. Tanjore, Malabar and Canara are liable to all the incidents which affect the welfare of the other districts, with the important exception of water, of which they have always abundance, the former by artificial works, the latter from the natural rains ; in them, therefore, famine and all its concomitant evils are unknown, and in point of agricultural wealth they will bear comparison with many parts of Europe. No year passes without our having melancholy experience of that contrast which is afforded by the state of the other districts.

55. I must again recur to the fact, that the revenue in two talooks only, in South Arcot, last year, was 1,30,000 rupees above the average revenue, before the lower anicut was constructed. As Tanjore has always been fully cultivated, the effects of the upper anicut upon the revenue of that province are not so easily made matter of account; that they are of the highest importance, however, is evident from the fact stated by the civil engineer, that the river in this season has been " so exceedingly low" as to require the retention of the whole quantity for cultivation. But for the anicut, a large portion of it would have run waste to the sea. All that cattle into the

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(111)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
river has been kept up by the anicut, and turned upon the land, and lacs of revenue thereby saved.

56. It is plain from these facts, that an increased expenditure upon the engineer department would be the sure means of filling the public treasury. I am persuaded, therefore, that the attention of the government cannot be directed to a subject of greater importance, and that it would be wise, without delay, to investigate it thoroughly, with a view to the undertaking of all such works as promise results equal to what have followed from the construction of the anicuts in Tanjore.

							(Signed)	J. SULLIVAN."

P.S. " Since the preceding sheets were written, the report of the collector of Tinnevelly upon the settlement of that district for Fusly 1248 has been submitted. It appears that the revenue lost in that year from deficiency of water in the Nunjah lands alone, was 1,58,471 rupees. This example is of itself sufficient to show how necessary it is to the finances of government, that every effort should be made, and made without delay, to put the works of irrigation in the most efficient state; particularly that we should take measures for storing up the water which now runs waste at one season of the year, in order that we may have the means of making up for deficient supplies at other seasons.
The collector says, that the early part of the season was so favourable as to induce the ryots greatly to extend their cultivation, but that a failure in the river supplies at a later period destroyed their hopes and their property ; so that instead of an increase in the revenue of Fusly 1248, over that of Fusly 1247, of 1,22,767 rupees, which would have been realized if the water had sufficed for the cultivation, there was a net decrease of 26,259 rupees.
In the worst years there are some days in which there is such a glut of water as would admit of a quantity being stored up in reservoirs on the hills for use, when the harvest is placed in jeopardy by drought below. In the Cauvery, this year, there was at one time so little water, that unless the new anicuts had turned all that there was upon the land, the crops in Tanjore, Trichinopoly and South Arcot would have been ruined ; while at another period of the season there was such a flood as has not been known for many years. The construction of reservoirs on the hills (where the rivers have their sources), is a new feature in the irrigation system of India, although such works are made in parts of Russia for assisting the navigation of rivers. It will be seen from the accompanying papers, that reservoirs capable of containing many million cubic yards of water may be constructed on the hills at an expense from 4,000 rupees to 5,000 rupees.
I find upon referring to the accounts, that I have greatly understated the financial benefits that have already been derived

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(112)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
from the construction of the lower anicut. That work has cost 1,85,000 rupees, including repairs, and locks, &c., constructed for the improvement of navigation : the increase of revenue from the works in Fusly 1245, the first year that it came into operation, was reported by the collector to be 50,000 rupees ; in the two following years it yielded an increase of 75,000 rupees per annum ; and in Fusly 1248 the increase upon the average revenue was 1,38,128 rupees ; the total increase therefore has been 3,50,000 rupees, or nearly double the amount of the expenditure.*

But a much larger increase is expected when all the channels of irrigation from the anicut are perfected, the embankments of the river completed, and a general system of drainage established. I am informed by the civil engineer of the division, that the delay which has occurred in extending channels to distribute the water' has been a most serious loss ; nearly all the waste land would have been cultivated this year had they been done. This comes from having an inefficient establishment, and is an additional proof of what I have stated, 'that government' lose thousands in revenue, when they save ten by keeping the civil engineer's department below its proper level."
							(Signed) J. SULLIVAN.
(Footnote: * In the N. W. parts of this district (S. Arcot) there are 612 tanks; the assessment of the land under them which is capable of	cultivation is	Rupees
																2,64,960
								Revenue 								1,07,974
						Difference not cultivated for want of water						1,56,986 )

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(113)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE 113 ATTACHED SEPARATELY


--------------------------------------------------------------------------(114)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE 114 ATTACHED SEPARATELY

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(115)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE 115 ATTACHED SEPARATELY


--------------------------------------------------------------------------(116)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TABLE 116 ATTACHED SEPARATELY


--------------------------------------------------------------------------(117)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
					A Glossary 
					     OF
				THE INDIAN TERMS
			OCCURRING IN THE FOREGOING EXTRACTS.
Abkarry		The revenue derived from the monopoly of the sale of spirituous and fermented liquors.
Amauny		A term used to designate direct administration or management by the officers of the Government, as distinguished from that by contract, lease or other intermediate agency.
Ameen		A subordinate officer in the Revenue or Police Department.
Anicut		A weir or dam of masonry across a river.
Anna		A small denomination of money; being the 16th part of a rupee. Also the 16th part of anything.
Ayacut		This term signifies the whole taxable area in a village, or under an irrigation work.
Bandy 		A wheel conveyance; most commonly used in the limited sense of a bullock cart.
Budgerow	A river passenger boat, with a raised cabin.
Bund		The retaining bank of a tank. A river embankment. A bank generally.
Calingulah	A masonry work in the bank of a tank or channel, for the discharge of surplus water.
Calwah		A channel.
Candy 		A denomination of weight. The Madras Candy is 500 pounds avoirdupois; the Bombay Candy is 784 pounds.
Carkoon 		A subordinate officer under the Tahsildar ; the same as a Tur-rufdar.
Carnatic 		The plain country on the eastern side of the Indian Peninsula, between the Central Mountains and Table Land and the Bay of Bengal. To the north it is bounded by the Northern Circars.
Covolgar		A watchman ; commonly used of the village watchman.
Catony 		A land measure. It contains 6,400 square yards; being within a fraction one English acre and one-third.
Chit 		A small piece of written paper or Palmira leaf, as a memorandum or receipt.
Cholum		A species of grain.
Choultry		A public shelter or lodging for native travellers.
Chunam 		Lime; also mortar.
Circur		The Government.
Conocapillay 	An Accountant, not applied to mere office accountants, but to men having some charge or duty involving the keeping of accounts.
Cooly 		A labourer who works for daily hire; or a man who does single jobs for hire.
Cotay 		 A depot for the sale of salt.
Cullum		A nominal measure of grain. At Madras, it is equal to about three bushels, but varies in different places.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(118)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cumbly 		A thin and coarse blanket; made of the wool of Indian sheep.
Curnum		A village accountant.
Curry Stuff	The mixture of spices used by the natives of India to flavour their staple food, boiled rice.
Cusbah 		The chief town of a District or Talook.
Cutcherry	The office of a Collector, a Tahsildar, or other Revenue Officer.
Cutwall		The head police officer in a town or cantonment. He has no judicial functions; being charged merely with the prevention of offences and the apprehension of criminals.
Dhoney		An inferior sort of coasting craft employed on the Coromandel coast. It is of bad form and awkward rig, and is little seaworthy. The dhoney is going out of use, being superseded by the brig.
Dufterbund 	An office porter ; employed to carry about papers and records where wanted within the office building; and occasionally to look for papers wanted, and to put them in their proper places when done with.
Enam 		Land held free, or partially free, of Government tax.
Fusly 		The revenue year; it begins on the 12th July. Fusly 1263 began on the 12th July, 1852.
Garce 		A nominal measure for grain and salt. It contains 400 Madras mercals, being equal to 185.2 cubic feet, or a fraction more than 18 quarters English.
Ghaut		A mountain pass. "The Western Ghauts" is used to signify the range of heights bounding the central table land of the Indian Peninsula to the westward, where it sinks down into the plain : and the term " Eastern Ghauts" is in like manner applied to the less abrupt declivities of the same tract on its eastern side.
Ghee		 Butter prepared by boiling; an article very much used in Indian native cookery.
Godown 		A store-house; also an out-house.
Gomastah . 	An agent for the transaction of business: also (in official use) an accountant or writer in a native language.
Gunny		A very coarse kind of sacking.
ungamy 		Temporary ; applied to servants entertained for temporary purposes.
Jaggry		Coarse sugar before the separation of the molasses.
Jugheer		A portion of territory, from a few villages to an extensive tract, conferred by the supreme power in the State on an individual. Such a grant confers on the grantee all the fiscal interests of the Government in the tract granted; originally Jagheers were usually granted as a reward for military service.
Jagheerdar . .	The holder of a Jagheer.
Jatra		A religious fair.
Jelly 		Properly Jully, from a Tamil word. Bricks or stone broken small, or small stones of uniform size. Used in the Road Department, to signify gravel as distinguished from " metal."
Jellied 		(From the foregoing) gravelledóused in the Road Department.
Jummahbundy 	The annual settlement of the land revenue made under the Ryotwar system.
Khoonds 		A wild people inhabiting the hill country west of Ganjam.
Kist 	 	An instalment of the Government tax or rent. All branches of revenue are divided into certain portions, payable at fixed times of the year.
Krore		One hundred lacs, or ten millions.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(119)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Kunkel		Nodulous limestone. It forms a very convenient as well as serviceable material for road making ; and in the north of India, where it is very common, it is largely used for that purpose.
Kusser		An extra tax levied on Poonja -and, when irrigated from a Government tank or channel.
Lac 		One hundred thousand.
Maistry 		A master workman in any trade; more particularly a head bricklayer, carpenter, stonemason, &c. In the Public Works Department, a subordinate officer employed to superintend building, &c.
Maliahs		A hill tribe in Ganjam.
Mamool	 	Custom, usage.
Mango tope 	A plantation or orchard of mango trees.
Maramut 		Strictly, repairs. The whole department of Public Works under the Board of Revenue, is styled the " Maramut Department;" and the term " Maramut" is applied to all the work which engages that Department.
Masula boat	The surf-boat used at Madras and on the Coromandel Coast.
Maund 		A measure of weight. It varies much in size from place to place, and even at the same place in different trades. The Madras standard maund is 25 pounds; the " Indian-maund,"" used in the Salt Department, is 80 pounds; the Bengal maund is 82 2/7 pounds.
Meerasy		A proprietary interest or estate in the soil, of a particular kind. Also the title to certain hereditary offices or emoluments.
Merrasdar 	A holder of land or office on such tenure.
Mogany	 	A division of a Talook.
Momaty 		The Indian substitute for the spade or shovel. In its general form it resembles a hoe, but with a large and strong blade, and a handle not exceeding 18 or 20 inches in length.
Monigar 		The head revenue officer of a village. A tank or channel Monigar is an officer charged with the custody of an important tank or channel.
Moochy		An office servant employed to rule paper, bind books, mend pens, make ink, &c.
Moonshy 	A teacher of a native language; also a native Secretary or Javials-navees.
Moonsiff		The head police officer of a village, having also a small penal jurisdiction.
Moottah 		A few villages held on Zemindary tenure; a small zemindary.
Moottahdar 	The holder of such a property.
Moplah 		A tribe on the Malabar Coast, descended from Arab settlers.
Moturfah		Special taxes on those who follow manufactures and trades.
Nabob 		A Viceroy. The Mussulman ruler of the Carnatic was so styled, as the Deputy of the Nizam or Soobadar of the Deccan.
Neerany Monigar	A subordinate functionary, charged with the distribution of the water of a large tank or channel.
Nizam 		The ruler of the Hydrabad country is commonly so styled ; his title being Nizam-ool-Moolk, or Regulator of the Empire.
Nuddee		A river or large watercourse.
Nullah		A small river; also an artificial watercourse.
Nunjah		Land irrigated, or capable of irrigation.
Pattimar 		A species of coasting craft employed on the Malabar Coast; it is superior to the dhoney both in seaworthiness and in sailing qualities.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------(120)------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Peishcar 		A revenue officer; subordinate to the Tahsildar, but of higher rank than the Turrufdar.
Peishcush 	Tribute. The revenue payable by the larger Zemindaries is called by this term.
Poolbundy 	The term applied to the repair and maintenance of river embankments in Bengal.
Poonjah 		Land cultivated without irrigation; also laud classed as such in the revenue accounts.
Rajah  		A King or Chieftain. Extensive Zemindars assume the title.
Roossoom 	 Customary fees or perquisites to village servants and others. 
Rowannah 	A permit or pass for goods having paid duty.
Ryot		An occupier and cultivator of land.
Ryotwar		The term used for that system of land revenue administration under which the Government officer deals with each Ryot.
Saderwaird 	The office expenses for stationery, &c.
Sayer 		Transit duties or land customs.
Serishtadar 	The head native officer of a Collector's office; also the officer in a Talook next under a Tahaildar. The Serishtadar's business is chiefly with accounts.
Shavy 		Rice crops withered for want of water; sometimes applied also to dry crops withered from failure of rain.
Shroff		An examiner and sorter of coins in a treasury.
Sibbendy 	A term applied to an establishment of Peons; and sometimes more largely to all classes of Talook or district servants.
Sudr Adaulat 	The highest Company's Court at Madras.
Sudr Ameen	A subordinate native judicial officer.
Sunned 		An order; a permit; a grant.
Tahsildar 		The native revenue officer in charge of a Talook,
Talook 		A subdivision of a district or collectorate.
Tappal		The mail or post.
Toty 		An inferior village servant, who assists the Cauvulgar or Taliary.
Turrufdar .	A n officer under a Tahsildar, in charge of a subdivision of a Talook ; a Carkoon.
Vale		The standard land measure used in Tanjore; it contains exactly five cawnies, or about 6 3/4 acres.
Voykat .		A channel or watercourse.
Wudder bandy. 	A kind of bullock-cart used by the tribe called Wudders; it is of excessively rude construction, and has low wheels rudely cut out of a solid plank of wood, with axles of the same material.
Yairy 	 	An irrigation tank or reservoir.
Zemindar		One who holds a tract of country, and levies all the Government revenues therein for his own benefit, paying a certain fixed amount annually to the Government.
Zemindary 	A tract of country so held by a Zemindar.
Zillah 		A division or part. A district or collectorate, as being a division or portion of the empire.
Zillahdar		A subordinate revenue officer under the Tahsildar, who has charge, under him, of a "division" or " portion" of the Talook. This term, " Turrufdar," and " Carkoon," are applied, in different districts, to the same class of officers.
			_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
							London: printed by C. Roworth and Sons, Bell Yard, Temple Bar.

